Im having a really, really, really good night, Sam Smith saidduring the Grammys, and there was no fact-check necessary. On Sundays prime-time CBS telecast, the ascendant blue-eyed British soul singer performed a duet with Mary J. Blige and heard his name called over and over from the stage. He collected four gramophone statues, including two of the biggest: Song of the Year and Record of the Year, both for the pleading anthem Stay With Me. This is the best night of my life, Smith said after Stevie Wonder read his name (in braille) and Jamie Foxx handed the 22-year-old upstart the Record of the Year award. By that point, in his previous speeches, Smith had already thanked my amazing label, my amazing management, Mum and Dad, the Recording Academy and his producer. In accepting Record of the Year, he said, Dear Lord, thank you so much! And then, he thanked one more person. But it wasnt the man whose famous name was on more than a few peoples minds, given recent headlines such as this one: Sam Smith to pay Tom Petty royalties for basically writing the same song. Sam Smith, say this just once: "Tom Petty." Tim O'Brien (@TimOBrien) February 9, 2015 Ok, Sam Smith. Give me a Tom Petty shoutout now. Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) February 9, 2015 Would a Sam Smith & Tom Petty duet be weird? #GRAMMYs A L E X Z (@alexzjohnson) February 9, 2015 I'm the guy who physically cannot see Sam Smith without mentioning Tom Petty. L u k e O' N e i l (@lukeoneil47) February 9, 2015 Here, instead, is what Smith said in his last onstage comments of his really, really, really good night: I want to thank the man who this record is about, who I fell in love with last year. Thank you so much for breaking my heart, cause you got me four Grammys. Different heartbreaker. RT @mashable: Sam Smith thanks 'heartbreaker' after winning 4 Grammys. http://t.co/PveBgzkq5o pic.twitter.com/YxeTIQDbsA Jim Roberts (@nycjim) February 9, 2015 The specter of Tom Petty seemed to haunt the telecast: Every time Smith was mentioned as a nominee, the chorus of Stay With Me came tumbling out of the television. And its that songs chorus that has become problematic for Smith. As the Sun first reported last month, Smiths publisher settled a copyright dispute with Pettys publisher in October over similarities between Stay With Me and Pettys 1989 single, I Wont Back Down. Recently the publishers for the song I Wont Back Down, written by Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne, contacted the publishers for Stay With Me, written by Sam Smith, James Napier and William Phillips, about similarities heard in the melodies of the choruses of the two compositions, Smiths representatives said in a statement. Not previously familiar with the 1989 Petty/Lynne song, the writers of Stay With Me listened to I Wont Back Down and acknowledged the similarity. Although the likeness was a complete coincidence, all involved came to an immediate and amicable agreement in which Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne are now credited as co-writers of Stay With Me along with Sam Smith, James Napier and William Phillips. As part of the settlement, the Sun reported, Petty and Lynne were awarded a 12.5 percent stake in Smiths song. every time sam smith wins, tom petty lights one with a $100 bill. that boys like found money to tom. Bomani Jones (@bomani_jones) February 9, 2015 Does Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne get 12.5 percent each for every Grammy Sam Smith wins tonight? Josh Sternberg (@joshsternberg) February 9, 2015 But Petty and Lynne (who actually performed on Sunday nights telecast, reviving the old Electric Light Orchestra) were not eligible for shares of Smiths Grammys, the Recording Academys senior vice president of awards said before the ceremony. Since Lynne and Petty did not do any new writing for this work, we are considering their original work to have been interpolated, BillFreimuth said, according to the Wall Street Journal. Lynne and Petty will not be considered nominees nor will they be considered GRAMMY recipients, should the song win. Rather, they would be given certificates to honor their participation in the work, just as any other writers of sampled or interpolated work. Petty, its worth noting, has never won a Grammy for Song of the Year or Record of the Year. (The former is for songwriting, the latter is for the performance and production of a song and really should have been renamed Single of the Year or Track of the Year ages ago.) In fact, Smiths debut Grammy haul surpassed Pettys for his entire career: Smith has four Grammys, and Petty has won a threein his lifetime. (He does have that Rock and Roll Hall of Fame thing going for him, though.) Smith told CBC News Now last week that he wasnt familiar with I Wont Back Down and that the similarities were coincidental. It was a complete accident, he said. I am 22 years old. . . . Ive never listened to that song. He added:I just go into the studio, and Stay With Mewas me just writing a song about me sleeping with too many people, and wishing they would stay over. That was my mindset when I was writing that song, and I was very shocked to find out that the melody was similar, because again, I am 22 and Ive never heard the song. Petty himself shrugged it off, saying in a statement that I have never had any hard feelings toward Sam and that all my years of songwriting have shown me these things can happen. Most times you catch it before it gets out the studio door but in this case it got by. In fact, as the Los Angeles Times noted, Petty has previously acknowledged channeling other peoples songs himself. In the official and authorized book, Conversations with Tom Petty, the musician was asked about the Grateful Deads Built to Last, which had the same title as en earlier Petty song. That happens sometimes, Petty said. You look up, and you think youve come up with something, and you realize somebody else has done it first. You try not to let it bug you. What bugs you the most is when you write something and then realize its somebody elses song. Thatll happen to me two times a month. Ill be working with something and then realize Im channeling this melody from somewhere else, and then I have to abandon the idea. But theres only so many words and so many notes, so sometimes you do cross somebody elses territory. The books author, the Times noted, asked, Have you found that as the years have gone by, youre better at knowing when youre using somebody elses melody? Pettys response: Yeah. And when that happens, I just have to throw it away. Author: Throw it away or change it? Petty: Well, I just usually pitch it. And start over. Because if I change a note or two, its still going to be in my head that its that other song. So I think every songwriter must have that problem from time to time. You play something and you realize its Beethoven, or the Beatles. As Billboard reported last month, Stay With Me was not the first time Pettys sound has been mined surreptitiously or otherwise by an emerging artist. As the trade journal noted: The Strokes first single, Last Nite particularly the opening is very similar to Pettys American Girl, a resemblance that Petty acknowledged in a 2006 interview with Rolling Stone. I saw an interview with them where they actually admitted it. That made me laugh out loud. I was like, OK, good for you. It doesnt bother me. Petty is not listed as a songwriter on that hit, however. And anyway, as The Posts Geoff Edgers wrote recently, there is a rich tradition of ripping off other musicians and having to fess up later. Here is a comparison of Stay With Me and I Wont Back Down: RELATED: Complete coverage of Grammys 2015: Sam Smith is biggest winner, Beck scores major surprise, Kanye pulls a Kanye. Kanye wasnt joking, tells E! that Beck needs to respect artistry and he should have given his award to Beyonc Eight great, weird Beck songs better than anything on Grammy Album of the Year-winning Morning Phase The story behind Beyonces dazzling, but controversial, Grammy performance of Take My Hand, Precious Lord Critics notebook: Awards show rightly grasps for a purpose but why so serious? At Echostage, Sam Smith has the voice but not the songs Sam Smith and Ed Sheeran young Brits in search of love and slightly better songs