For the third straight day, Democrats filibustered the Senate GOPs effort to pass the House GOP bill that funded the Department of Homeland Security while rolling back Obamas executive actions shielding millions from deportation. What happens now is unclear. One thing is clear, however: John Boehner has no idea how Republicans are going to get out of this mess. Ed OKeefe reports: How exactly Republicans plan to proceed remains unclear. The impasse has once again exposed deep differences between hard-line conservatives strongly opposed to Obamas immigration actions and more moderate Republicans who disagree with what the president did, but realize that they can do very little to reverse the presidents moves without super-majorities in the House and Senate. Asked by reporters on Thursday if he knows how McConnell plans to proceed after three days of failing to advance the bill, House Speaker John A. Boehner shrugged his shoulders and said: No. Hes got a tough job over there. Ive got a tough job over here, he said. God bless him, and good luck. What else can you say? Well, actually, there are a lot of things you can say. One of them is that this is likely going to land right back in the Speakers lap very soon. Right now, Senate Republicans appear to be holding repeated votes on this to demonstrate beyond doubt to House Republicans that it cannot get past a Dem filibuster. As Politico reports: GOP senators believe that once House Republicans are convinced their plan cannot overcome a filibuster, the party can begin searching for a Plan B. But thats when another niggling problem arises: House Republicans say they cant pass a clean bill funding DHS, either. Continues Politico: House Republican leadership says its in a bind and doubts that more than a few dozen of their lawmakers would vote for a clean bill. They say the Senate must include some language to chip away at Obamas immigration policies for a bill to clear the House but Senate leaders are in a quandary because they cant change the bill if Democrats block the floor debate from even occurring. Its striking that only a few dozen House Republicans would vote for a bill cleanly funding the Department of Homeland Security. But if this is true, this dilemma can be boiled down as follows: Senate Republicans cant pass anything funding DHS that does roll back Obamas executive actions. But House Republicans cant pass anything funding DHS that doesnt roll back Obamas executive actions. Perhaps Republicans will come up with some really clever way to thread the needle Senate Republicans could water down the House bill just enough to get six Senate Dems to support it and get it past a filibuster, while retaining just enough of an attack on Obamas amnesty to ensure it passes the House. This is pretty far-fetched, and in any case, Obama would veto the measure. Still, Republicans would have forced him to do that, which would be something. Barring this outcome, though, we know how this movie will probably end: With House Republicans passing a clean bill funding Homeland Security with a lot of Democratic support. And Boehner knows exactly how to do this, because hes done it before. He can hold two votes: The first on the amendments rolling back Obamas actions, which will allow conservatives to vote against Obamas executive amnesty once again; and the second on clean funding of DHS, which would enrage conservatives but would pass the House with Democrats. Well be told again and again that Boehner just cant do this, and he wont ever do it, because it would damage him too badly among conservatives. Maybe, but havent we heard that in advance of other, previous caves? One final possibility: A Texas court which is poised to issue a decision in the states lawsuit against Obamas actions any day could very well put a stay on them. That would get Republicans off the hook temporarily. They might then argue to conservatives that Republicans can now fund DHS cleanly, because the courts are in the process of stopping Obamas lawlessness. But even there, conservatives might respond rightly that an appeals court might subsequently lift the stay and allow Obamas actions to go forward, so Republicans must not let up in the Homeland Security standoff, no, not even for a second! No, there doesnt appear to be any easy way out of this one.