The Posts Nia-Malika Henderson caught a noteworthy difference between Jeb Bush and potential rivals: Bushcan engage with the media freely to his advantage. She noted his interaction with the New York Times and National Journal on the day of his Detroit speech (he also talked to MSNBC about reform conservatism), With his interviews, Bush is also doing something simple, Henderson wrote. He is introducing himself to the press and to the public. He is saying, You know my last name, but you dont know me. And he is mostly right. Bush, who was also relatively accessible to the press as Florida governor, has not run for office since 2002, and while he has weighed in from time to time on issues (education and immigration), how his approach and worldview fits into the current governing climate are not clear. Other candidates have opportunities to get free media (The current governors and possible candidates will have their state of the state addresses and real-time decision making to do. The senators who might run will have their votes and floor speeches.), but, as she points out, Bush is not only dusting off the campaign cobwebs, but he is jumping into the current arena, trying to declare himself to be his own man. Moreover, constant interchange with the media, as Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) provided on his Straight Talk Express, can disarm reporters and lessen the desperation for news that builds when interaction is infrequent. It is when the mediais kept at bay that tensions rise and competition for a juicy soundbite heats up. Why dont other candidates do this? For one thing not all of them are prepared to talk off the cuff about anything a reporter might ask. Moreover, unlike Bush, some candidates have not had loads of experience with national media and lack a comfort level with them. And most important, as we saw recently with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and continually with Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), some candidates get into a heap of trouble when forced to go off script. Indeed, another distinction Bush is making between himself and opponents is See, I am already up to speed. I dont need a handler. There are a few of caveats to this. First, as Bush demonstrated in the Q-and-A session after his speech, he is actually more comfortable speaking off the cuff than with a script. He explained that if he formally declares his intention to run he will have to distinguish himself from his family by sharing what is in his soul and making a personal connection with voters. So one might see the mediaopenness as part of that strategy, but what is apparent is that Bush reads, visits and thinks a lot about policy and likes to talk about it. (His preference for directly picking up the phone or dashing off e-mails to state officials or ordinary voters accounts for the reams of e-mail he plans to post.) We all tend to do more of what we are good at, and chatting about policy seems to be what engages Bush most. Not every candidate likes this or does it well (some may be better working a room with charm and humor, others in giving fiery speeches) so candidates will likely rely on their strengths. Second, a candidate who talks to the mediaa lot will make mistakes and take his campaign off topic. But this has to be weighed against the advantage one gets in the volume and type of free newscoverage. In acknowledging his rivals troubles over vaccines, Bush conceded that he too has said things that blew up and caused him grief. Nevertheless, he obviously has decided it is worth the risk to keep conversing openly with the media. Third, a candidate and staff are usually in a battle. The candidate does not want to be handled or managed and the staff wants message discipline and gaffe-free days. Ultimately the candidate should run the race he wants to, but that sometimes entails ignoring or disagreeing with ones closest advisers. Those close to Bush say, to a person, that longtime advisers like Sally Bradshaw (currently heading up his PAC) and Kristy Campbell (wearing multiple hats including communications) long ago stopped trying to restrain the gregarious governor. In short, a candidates most important executive experience, if hes not been a vice president, governor or military commander, is in managing himself and his campaign including the amount and manner in which he interacts with the media. Fourth, if the candidate is going to talk a lot, he better have time carved out to think, read and speakto experts. He needs to be up on the latest issues and well versed in specifics so he can carry on a free-flowing conversation. And he needs to think through what hes read in order to discuss it intelligently. Carving out this time becomes more and more difficult asyou are fundraising, doing interviews and raising money. Unfortunately, it may be the first thing cut from the schedule which renders a talkative candidate less prepared and at ease talking to the media. And finally, one reason Hillary Clinton does not talk to the media outside tightly controlled conditions (or to sell a book) is that she has nothing interesting to say. Her $2oo,000 speeches are long-winded, unoriginal and boring designed not to make news. There is no evidence she is brimming with new ideas or wants to rework the liberal hymnal. Unless she wants to talk about her grandchild or the weather, she wont have much to say to the mediaaside from the dreaded process questions: When will you declare? Do you worry about the primary being a coronation? And of course, she does not want to get asked tricky questions that put her at odds with the president and his left-wing base. In sum, talking to the media freely can be a great asset in a presidential race. But to do this a candidate generally has to like talking about a range of ideas, accept the risks of slip-us, push back on his staff, make sure he has time to gather and synthesize material and, most of all, have something interesting he is willing to say. Otherwise, stick to the stump speech and the talking points.