Telling it like it is. The people who are now left at Guantanamo Bay approximately 120 terrorists are not innocent goat herders. There is no one there who is not a hardened terrorist. If we release them then you can be sure a large number of them will return to the battlefield.By some estimates almost one-third of detainees released from Guantanamo have returned to the battlefield. Telling tall tales is apparently not a firing offense. According to sources at the network, CEOSteve Burkealong withNBCUniversal News Group CEO Pat Fili-Krusheland NBC News chiefDeborah Turnessare considering a scenario that would include a lengthy suspension and full-throated apology from [Brian] Williams. Telling us that three Republican senators in purple states are safe if they run for reelection Quinnipiac University reports: Voters are optimistic in the key swing states of Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, looking forward to the next four years under their respective governors, according to a Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll released today. Florida voters approve 47-35 percent of the job U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio is doing and say 44 37 percent that he deserves reelection in 2016. Sens. Rob Portman (Ohio) and Pat Toomey (Pa.) are also up big. Telling us we could end wars by leaving the region proved to be the biggest falsehood of them all. Foreign fighters are streaming intoSyriaand Iraq in unprecedented numbers to join the Islamic State or other extremist groups, including at least 3,400 from Western nations among 20,000 from around the world, U.S. intelligence officials say in an updated estimate of a top terrorism concern. Intelligence agencies now believe that as many as 150 Americans have tried and some have succeeded in reaching in the Syrian war zone, officials told the House Homeland Security Committee in testimony prepared for delivery on Wednesday. Some of those Americans were arrested en route, some died in the area and a small number are still fighting with extremists. Telling when even liberals turn on the White House: Administration Turns Obama Anti-Semitism Gaffe Into Epic Blunder. Telling us what we already know, the national security strategy is noteworthy for what it leaves out: Anyone who thought the Obama administration would use its new national-securitystrategyto finally put forward a serious policy to defeat radical Islam and recognize it as a global ideology at war with Western civilization has been sorely disappointed.By sticking to the Obama teams peculiar practice of referring to terrorist groups like the Islamic State and al-Qaeda as violent extremists and still refusing to use the terms radical Islam, radical Islamist, Islamist terrorist, or jihadist, this strategy makes clear that the president is still in denial. Telling us why he is different than Obama was in 2008, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) says: I served nine years in the Florida legislature, the third-largest state in the country. I was its presiding officer for two years and also ran the Florida House from an administrative point of view, served four years in the Senate, where I have dedicated significant amount of time to both travel and study, and actually [get] involved in shaping the policies on everything from the Western Hemisphere to policies in Asia. Remember that Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) have less experience than he does.