Here at The Watch, weve been following stories about the exonerated, what happens to them when they get out, and the discussion over what we as a society owe the people we wrongly imprison. Heres another such story from the (Raleigh, N.C.) News & Observer. Henry McCollum spent three decades in prison, an innocent man on death row, praying every day for his freedom. But now, four months after he and his half brother were exonerated of a horrible rape and murder, McCollum is struggling in the free world. He cant drive. His family has no car and no income. Hed like to work as a janitor, but he feels he needs a pardon to clear his name before he can get a job. I cant do nothing to help my family, McCollum said. Theyre not able to pay their bills. McCollum and his half brother, Leon Brown, were locked up their entire adult lives. Their IQ tests show scores in the 50s or 60s. They struggle with basic reading and writing, and they have lived more than half their lives in a world being ordered around by others. For the first few weeks, McCollum said he would be sitting in his bedroom, and his stepmother would holler and ask where he was. Id say, Im in my cell, McCollum said. Brown, too, has struggled. Leon Brown was 15 when he was arrested. His sister described him as a typical teenager: high-energy, hard-headed, always going somewhere on his bicycle. Today, Brown is diabetic. Beth Silberman, whose husband was one of McCollums lawyers, said she called prison officials to get his prescriptions for diabetes medication renewed until they could sign him up for Medicaid the government health insurance program for, among others, the disabled and elderly who are poor and get him a regular doctor. Prison officials refused to write a prescription, Silberman said. Geraldine Brown took her brother to the emergency room to get the prescription filled. Spokesman Keith Acree said prison policy forbids doctors from prescribing medicines to people not in their custody. North Carolina provides $50,000 per year of wrongful incarceration. But these people need more than just money. They need help adjusting to the world outside of prison. The need psychiatric care, job training and probably a lot of other counseling. Its difficult to put a price on the years taken from someone wrongly convicted. But surely we can do better than this.