One of the most poignant moments in the film Selma came when Martin Luther King Jr., weary and beleaguered from the challenges of the civil rights movement he led, made a phone call. On the other end, Mahalia Jackson, who was perhaps the greatest gospel singer of all time and also a key actor in the civil rights movement, picked up the phone. King needed a message from God, and Jackson was there to be the messenger. Moments later, soul-jazz singer Ledisi, who portrayed Jackson in the movie, beganto sing her ownpowerful rendition of Jacksons classic Take My Hand, Precious Lord. On Sunday night at the 57th Grammy Awards, leading into a performance of Glory by singer John Legend and rapper Common, the award-winning song for the film, Take My Hand, Precious Lord, was sung once again this time by this generations queen of pop and R&B: Beyonc. There were two distinct reactions to her performance.For viewers unaware of any controversy, Beyonc, ethereal and clearly moved by the moment, delivered the kind of flawless rendition that audiences have come to expect from her. But since it was reported that Ledisi would not be singing the hymn, somecritics have been waiting in the wings, pretty much ready to pounce. The fact that she thanked everyone for listening, further lets me know she shouldn't been singing it. #RealTalk #TeamLedisi Ramel (@itsRamel) February 9, 2015 So if "Precious Lord" was gonna be the lead-in to "Glory" why not keep it all the way Selma and let Ledisi sing it? No shade, just asking. Tiffany (@BeckyFletch) February 9, 2015 that performance was not Beyonce's proudest moment. She can sing a national anthem but not gospel. not today satan. Chakra Khan (@trillaryklinton) February 9, 2015 Some songs should just be performed by a Saaanger not just a singer. L. Joy Williams (@ljoywilliams) February 9, 2015 Ledisi Anibade Young, who was nominated for an award Sunday night, was in the audience. She lost the Best R&B Performance Grammy to wait for it Beyonc. Ahead of the Grammys, however, she spoke to reporters about the controversy and acknowledged that she was a little disappointed that she wasnt askedto perform. But I got over that and I had to look at the positive and empower women, she told the Associated Press before the show. We have to empower each other. Its a great thing. And one day Ill be on that Grammy stage. Every artist wants to be on the Grammys stage. Thats part of our career is to be there. So my time will come when its time. Ledisi is not a household name, there is no question about that.But she has a dedicated underground following and her music is critically acclaimed. And perhaps most relevant to Sunday nights Grammys performance, her rendition of the song produced one of Selmas most moving moments. Ledisi told E! News in another interview that she had no clue how Beyonc came to be chosen over her for the performance. Because of Legend, however, we have an answer. He noted that it was all Beyoncs idea. We were actually approached by Beyonc. She wanted to do an intro to our performance and introduce us, Legend told E! News in an interview. You dont really say no to Beyonc if she asks to perform with you. So there is that. On the other hand, subtext aside, the performance was as most performances by Beyonc are stunning, visually and vocally. There were plenty of people who wereeither unmoved by or unfamiliar with the grievances of the disgruntled element on Twitter. .@Beyonce's performance quite literally lifted us up. What a way to end the night! #Grammys2015 Keds (@Keds) February 9, 2015 Thank you Beyonce for blessing the world with your performance! #Grammys Earvin Magic Johnson (@MagicJohnson) February 9, 2015 MORE READING: Complete coverage of Grammys 2015: Sam Smith is biggest winner, Beck scores major surprise, Kanye pulls a Kanye. Kanye wasnt joking, tells E! that Beck needs to respect artistry and he should have given his award to Beyonc The only person Sam Smith didnt thank at the Grammys deserves a lot of credit Critics notebook: Awards show rightly grasps for a purpose but why so serious?