When the annual fathers trip rolls around, when the teams traveling party swells in size and the dads join along for the ride, Coach Barry Trotz enjoys the present and the future merged into one road trip. I want to see what every player is going to be like when they are in their 40s and 50s, Trotz said. I said Ill be way different than my dad. Im exactly like my dad. So Trotz laid out examples. If Troy Brouwer claims distinction from his father, Don, who watched with pride as Brouwer scored the game-winning goal during the 2015 Winter Classic? He will be exactly like his dad. Eric Fehr and Michael Latta and Tom Wilson? Theyre all going to be just like their dads. Senior director of communications Sergey Kocharov? Sergey will be just like his dad. And here is the twist for this particular installment, when the fathers meet the Capitals in Los Angeles later this week, for the second and third legs of their California tour: For the first time, fathers of non-players were invited too. This means trainers, equipment managers, in-house media such asradio broadcaster John Walton and writer Mike Vogel,and, yes, public relations folk Kocharov and Pace Sagester, all get to share their professional lives with the men who helped raise them. (Players are technically allowed to bring whomever they choose; Alex Ovechkin, for instance, is taking his brother this year.) I really want to see if Paces dads head is as big as his, goaltender Braden Holtby joked. Its absolutely outstanding that this year theyre all able to bring someone, whether its your father or not, or someone who means a lot to you. I think thats huge kudos to whoever decided that, most likely Barry, I dont know. Thats great. The trainers, everyone get to bring someone. They mean as much to our team as all the players do. Its outstanding. The thrill never subsides for the players, even though for Holtby this will be his first time actually enjoying the trip with his father, Greg. Two of his prior trips were preceded by a hasty recall at the 11th hour. Last season was on a back-to-back, a really rushed situation, so didnt really get to spend much time with him. Last year, colleague Barry Svrluga tagged along for the games in New Jersey and Montreal, and wrote what should be considered the definitive account of NHL dads trips. Mikhail Ovechkin passed around shots of Absolut vodka to change the mojo of a six-game losing streak, not long after he and Dave Green, father of defenseman Mike, shared a plane-side smoke upon landing in Newark. The rookies gave speeches, and Wilson told a joke about chicken pants, and Mikhail Grabovskis grandfather closed with a pep talk. Under Adam Oates, last year was the first where the fathers were allowed into meetings, a practice the players said everyone enjoyed. Favorite part is seeing the dads see our everyday life, forward Eric Fehr said. Come to meetings, watch practice, [to] hear a lot of them, theyre surprised by the amount of scouting we do and the amount of info we take in before games. They still feel like were playing a game for a living, and to see the work we put into it, I think it makes them appreciate it more, and we appreciate everything theyve done, and we want to show them. The relatively relaxed schedule the Capitals have one off day, one practice day, then back-to-back games against Los Angeles and Anaheim makes for a highly anticipated trip. Trotz coyly revealed he had invited two special friends to meet the fathers, then faked horror when a reporter asked if they would be clothed. One was an actor from Los Angeles, Trotz said. The other? I want to say a mentalist, Trotz said. So he will keep the dads entertained. Even without the show, without the predictions that might just reveal anyway how similar to their fathers everyone will become, the experience of the trip would stand on its own. After all, defenseman Karl Alzner called it his favorite part of the season. Well just get to walk around a little bit, sight-see, have a beer, relax, Alzner said. Do the things that you dont get to do during the season typically. Probably my favorite part is listening to the stories the next morning, what the dads have done the night before. Thats usually the best part.