In preparation for next weeks NFL combine, Oregon quarterback Marcus Mariota is training at a San Diego performance-training facility called Prolific Athletes. On the surface, this would not appear to be significant news, because lots of prospects including Jameis Winston, who is contending with Mariota to be the first quarterback taken in this years draft, and Baylor quarterback Bryce Petty are preparing for the combine at Prolific Athletes. But heres where things get interesting: According to Mary Kay Cabot of Cleveland.com, Mariota is training primarily with Kevin OConnell, who likely will be joining the Cleveland Browns as their quarterbacks coach. OConnells hiring has yet to be officially announced by the Browns, but Cabot reports that he could join the team during the combine. A Feb. 6 post on the Prolific Athletes Facebook page congratulates OConnell on his new job in Cleveland. Its a done deal. NFL coaches may not contact draft prospects until the combine under league rules, but because OConnell hasnt officially been hired yet by the Browns, it doesnt apply to him. This is not going over well with some in the NFL, per Pro Football Talks Mike Florio: So let me get this straight, a high-level executive with another team told PFT on Wednesday morning. The Browns can have their quarterbacks coach in waiting work with a player, teach him the entire offense, etc., but we cant even talk to any potential draft pick until the Combine per league rules? Something is wrong here. The Browns are a mess at the moment, and this wont help alter their public perception. The NFL already is investigating the team over alleged text messages sent by General Manager Ray Farmer to an assistant coach in the press box and a team employee on the sideline during regular season games in 2014, which would violate league rules. According to Cabot, Farmer could be looking at a multi-game suspension and the team could be assessed a fine and a loss of a draft pick if Farmer is found to have sent the texts. Cabot says the league could hand down its ruling soon, possibly this week. Then, earlier this month, quarterback Johnny Manziel checked himself into rehab to address his possible addiction to alcohol. The Browns took Manziel a Heisman Trophy winner like Mariota with a first-round pick in the 2014 draft, but he performed poorly after stepping in for Brian Hoyer late in the 2014 regular season. Like Mariota, Manziel worked with OConnell before the combine. The fact that the Browns are even tangentially connected to Mariota raises another question, namely: Is their opinion of Manziel so low that they want to draft another quarterback? Cleveland has spent a first-round pick on a quarterback in two of the last three drafts (Brandon Weeden, taken with the 22nd pick of the 2012 draft, was cut after two seasons and is now with the Dallas Cowboys). The Browns, who own the 12th and 19th picks in this years draft, almost certainly would need to trade up to get Mariota, even if NFL Network draft analyst Mike Mayock says Mariota would be a project for all but one team: The Philadelphia Eagles and Coach Chip Kelly, who recruited Mariota to Oregon.