There was finally a little positive news on the condition of Bobbi Kristina Houston Brown Tuesday. Her aunt Leolah Brown, sister to Bobbi Kristinas father Bobby Brown,confirmed, in an exclusive interview with Fox 5 Atlanta, that doctors have told family Bobbi Kristinas condition is improving, but that she is still on life support. We know that shes opening her eyes, Leolah said. Thats true. Shes opening her eyes, and theres a few more things that shes doing, but Krissi is doing well right now. She is. Since Bobbi Kristina, the only child of Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, was found face down and unresponsive in a bathtub of her Roswell, Ga., home on Jan. 31, there have been few details about her condition save for the fact that she was placed in a medically induced coma. There have been questions about how long Bobbi Kristinas brain was deprived of oxygen and how her brain function was affected. Some outlets declared her brain dead, a pronouncement her family disputed. [Reports: Bobbi Kristina Houston Brown investigation broadening] [Bobbi Kristina Houston Browns turbulent life and its many mysteries] There are so many signs showing us she will be okay in spite of what people are saying over the Internet, Leolah said. Krissi is fine, as I sit here before you today. Amidthe turmoil, Bobbi Kristinas family has tried to close ranks around her even as the situation reopened barely healed wounds from Houstons life and death. Shes progressing, Tina Brown, Bobbys sister, told the New York Daily News. Shes getting better. We just ask for people to continue to pray. Fans and supporters held a candlelight vigil for Bobbi Kristina in Riverdale, Ga., Monday night. Through his attorney Christopher Brown, Bobby Brown issued a scathing condemnation of much of the news coverage surrounding Bobbi Kristina: We support the candlelight vigil for Bobbi Kristina. The Brown family is amazed by the love and support from all that attended. However the false reports that continue to appear in print and on the internet are egregious,false and will be dealt with at an appropriate time. In particular, the false reporting of TMZ, The National Enquirer, The Atlanta Journal Constitution and the Daily Mail (UK) citing, police sources, family sources and Bobby Brown himself, will receive my attention. The desire to be first has clouded the judgment of many reporters as they forgo accuracy. This is a criminal investigation and the integrity of that process requires silence. In separate statement, Brown added, We continue to request privacy in this matter. We thank everyone that supported the vigil for Bobbi Kristina. God is hearing our prayers. There were reports the family was planning to remove Bobbi Kristina from life support Wednesday, Feb. 11, the third anniversary of Houstons death. People, citing multiple family sources, maintained these reports are false. One of Bobbi Kristinas cousins, Shayne Brown, gave an interview to Entertainment Tonight, seated beside his mother, Tina. [Bobby's] in good spirits, Shayne said. Uncles in good spirits. Its just a family issue. Right now, Uncle just wants his privacy. The family wants its privacy. Theres a lot of stories going around, people mixing words up. READ MORE FROM THE MORNING MIX