UPDATED: Jon Stewart, who pushed political comedy into a new realm with a show that relayed news by parodying the news, will leave The Daily Show later this year after 16 years at the helm, Comedy Central announced Tuesday night. To a younger generation of viewers who stopped watching network news, his late-night fake news show which particularly delighted in skewering politicians and the media made him a trusted messenger to millions. [Here's how Jon Stewart told "The Daily Show" audience he's stepping down] Since its launch with Stewart as host he took over the program in 1999 from Craig Kilborn The Daily Show has routinely racked up awards. It won the outstanding variety series Emmy for 10 years in a row. Stewart, 52, who often emphasized that he is a comedian rather than a news anchor, truly made his mark during the 2000 presidential election with his Indecision 2000 coverage of the George W. Bush and Al Gore recount in Florida. Afterward, everything on the show clicked, and Stewart emerged as the star of the comedy network especially during the Bush administration, when the stentorian and seemingly exasperated host would take on the policies of Bush, vice president Dick Cheney and defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld. Stewart broke the news of his departure to his audience during the shows taping in New York. Almost immediately on social media, the tweets started from people who witnessed the announcement. One of them was David Axelrod, a former adviser to President Obama: Just had the honor of being the great Jon Stewart's guest on @TheDailyShow, where he announced he's leaving. Emotional night. #jonstewart David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) February 11, 2015 Over the years, Stewarts team of deadpan correspondents also became comedy stars, including Stephen Colbert, John Oliver, Steve Carell, Larry Wilmore, Ed Helms, Samantha Bee and Jason Jones. Colbert went on to star on The Colbert Report for nearly a decade before departing in December to take over for late-night veteran David Letterman on CBS. [Jon Stewart's hardest truth - The time has come to wrap up the joke] The Daily Shows steady rise coincided with the popularity of Internet video, as clips from Stewarts broadcast frequently circulated on the Web the following day. They often featured him mocking the 24-hour cable news cycle, and he became known for taking aim at Fox News Channel and CNN. As such, Stewart became a serious pundit in his own right albeit one who amply punctuated his commentary with expletives. Jon has been at the heart of Comedy Central, championing and nurturing the best talent in the industry, in front of and behind the camera, the network said in a statement Tuesday. Through his unique voice and vision, The Daily Show has become a cultural touchstone for millions of fans and an unparalleled platform for political comedy that will endure for years to come. A darling of liberals, Stewart made headlines for his ongoing self-proclaimed feud with Fox Newss Bill OReilly, which culminated in a live debate called The Rumble in the Air-Conditioned Auditorium in 2012. Stewarts impact could also be measured off-screen. His 2010 Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear in Washington brought hundreds of thousands to the Mall to see Stewart and his fellow Comedy Central star Colbert take the stage and encourage people to participate in politics and civil discourse despite the seemingly hopeless partisan gridlock in Washington. [Act Four: Pop culture needs Jon Stewart now more than ever] As for The Daily Show, some suspected that Stewarts departure appeared imminent last summer when he took three months off to direct a feature film, Rosewater, about journalist Maziar Baharis imprisonment in Iran. In an interview with The Washington Post in November, Stewart wouldnt discuss future career plans other than joking that they included a nap. He also dismissed the suggestion that he would run for political office, and laughingly shot down the idea that people even those who see him as a trusted figure would vote for him. You dont know that, he said, except in the way that people would vote for a second-string quarterback to take over for the first-string quarterback if they are feeling frustration at their teams goals. The specific timing of Stewarts departure was not announced. The network statement said only that the host would leave later this year. His contract expires in the fall. Losing a marquee host is a tough loss for Comedy Central, though the statement made sure to note that the program which regularly attracts about a million viewers a night will endure for years to come. It is the latest in a long line of changes in the Comedy Central late-night lineup. Besides Colberts departure, John Oliver who at one point appeared to be Stewarts likely successor also left last year to host the breakout hit Last Week Tonight on HBO. Larry Wilmore, also a potential hosting option as a Daily Show standout, recently started his own Nightly Show on the network, replacing Colbert. [Why Jon Stewart and Brian Williams should just switch jobs] Heres Comedy Centrals full statement: Thank you Jon. pic.twitter.com/yPdxjnkuLw Comedy Central (@ComedyCentral) February 10, 2015 RELATED Video: Late-night laughs