Modern journalism thrives on analytic tools that tell us how often and widelyour articles are being read.Understanding what readers are reading gives a sense of what news stories they feel are important to their lives. For analyticsto really work, however, you also have to understand why readers are reading what they are reading.Sometimes,it's not that obvious. The Washington Post saw a telling example of this last month. So far, 2015has beenfull ofbig, important global news stories, includingthe terror attacks in Paris, the continued rise of the Islamic State, simmering tensions in Ukraine and much more. Yetone of the most-read online international storiesin Januaryinvolved none of these: Instead, itwas a story about an often-ignored conflict in Africa. Even more striking:The story was almost a year old. Headlined"Tens of thousands of Muslims flee Christian militias in Central African Republic" and published Feb. 7, 2014,the story by ThePost's then-Africa correspondent Sudarsan Raghavan describedhow thousands of families were fleeing chaos in the country, with potentially important regional consequences. There's no doubt this was a hugely important story: It affects hundreds of thousands of people, at least. When it was published, however, it wasonly a moderate "hit" among online readers. To anyone who works in online news, this is unsurprising: Stories from sub-Saharan Africa do not tend to be big hits. Nigeria's Chibok kidnapping and #BringBackOurGirls may have been a big story in 2014, but itwas the exception rather than the rule and eventhen-global interest in Nigeria and Boko Haram soon slumped. Getting the average reader interested in the Central African Republic a poor, obliquely-named countrythat has endured a number of cycles of violence is unfortunately a mighty task. But inmid-January, something changed. According to The Post's internal analytics, online traffic for the CAR story suddenly spiked. The story was the 19th most popular story from the foreign desk in January and the traffic hasn't stopped in February (at the time of writing it's the fifth most-read story in our section). In fact, the story hasreceived 80 percent of its traffic in 2015:A remarkable and frankly, strange feat for a one-year-old story that isapparently unrelated to the major stories of the moment. So what made this story blow up? A clue comes from social media. When the story became popular again in January, a large amount of its traffic came fromsocial media: We can see that the story was shared thousands of times on Facebook, Twitter and other social media accounts.And, importantly, this sharing seems to have begun just a few days after the attacks at the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris, attacks committed by Islamist extremists. After the attacks in Paris, a now-familiar refrain began to spread online: Why doesn't the Muslim world condemn the actions of extremists? Looking over the tweets that shared The Post's story from around that time, it's clear that the CAR story was seen as a rebuttal to that: "Why doesn't the Christian world condemn this?" many seemed to be saying. Here's a few of these tweets, chosen pretty much at random: If you are Christian and you have not PERSONALLY DENOUNCED THIS then that proves Christianity is inherently violent: http://t.co/3FYoqQiSBn Greg Stevens (@gregstevens) January 16, 2015 Muslims are being slaughtered by Christian militias in the Central African Republic as we speak. No media coverage. http://t.co/hgtI7Y567y Abby Argue (@AbbyArgue) January 14, 2015 15 ppl die at the hands of so called "Muslims' & the news refuses to report on the 2000 Muslims killed in Nigeria.. http://t.co/u9Nk2zgUBx Fatima (@FatimaEECDMG) January 14, 2015 While some who shared the story seemed to miss the fact that itwas almost a year old, the broader point was persuasive. In some ways, you can see echoes of it in Barack Obama's comments about the Crusades: Bad things have been done in the name of every religion, and demanding collective guilteach time will prove counterproductive. Perhaps there's also another takeaway: The vast amount of information available on the Internet allows people to see connections they might have missed if simply reading a newspaper once every day. CAR isthousands of miles from Paris (or, for that matter, the Islamic State). Yet readers can see the threads connecting the two. Meanwhile, events in CAR have moved on over the past 12 months. Violence continued to flare up throughout 2014, despite the United Nations taking over peacekeeping in the country.In April, soldiers from Chad were withdrawn from the country after they were accused of killing Christians; the month before, Camille Lepage, a French photographer who had documented violence in the country,was found dead. So far in2015, the country is working with a transitional government and the two major armed factions signed a truce just last week. Given that previous cease-fires have rapidly fallen apart, no one is holding their breath.