Quick thought experiment: I'm going to give you a word, and you're going to think of an adjective to describe it. Ready? Infrastructure. A l0t of you probably thought "crumbling," as in "crumbling infrastructure." It's a handy phrase used all the time by politicians and journalists, and it's become a kind of shorthand for the idea that our country's roads, bridges and buildings are literally falling apart underfoot due to decades of underfunding. There's certainly a lot of truth to this notion. One in 4 of our highway bridges -- 60,000 of them -- areeither obsolete or in need of serious repair. Water mains are breaking, many schools are in disrepair, and our roads earned a "D" grade last year from the American Society of Civil Engineers. Overall, the narrative is one of decline and fall from grace. And yet, not all the data support this notion. Let's look at the bridge numbers for the moment, since that's what I've been writing about all week. According to the Federal Highway Administration, in 2014 about 10 percent of our bridges were rated "structurally deficient," with another 14 percent deemed "functionally obsolete." But the historic data shows that both of those numbers have been on a steady decline over the past two decades. In particular, the share of bridges that are rated deficient -- meaning they need considerable repair or replacement work done -- has fallen by more than half, from 21.7 percent in 1992. Believe it or not, according to these figures the health of our nation's bridges has improved considerably. Some of our bridges may literally be crumbling, but there are a lot less of them than there were 20 or even 10 years ago. In 1992, for instance, nearly 60 percent of the bridges in New York State were rated deficient and in need of repair. Today that number stands at just 12 percent. Similar declines are evident across all 50 states. Looking at the national numbers, you can see that this decline is fairly even -- there are no sharp jumps or drops, which suggests a real and sustained long-term trend toward better bridges. I asked the Department of Transportation what's behind the steady improvement. "Bridge conditions overall have relatively improved over the years but this has been the result of the strong commitment to bridge safety by FHWA [the Federal Highway Administration] and state departments of transportation," they said in a statement. "We are still not where we need to be since almost a quarter of our nations bridges are still in need of repair or of some type of improvement." Crucially, according to the DoT, "There is no contradiction between recent improvements and the growing need for investment." So when we talk transportation funding -- as Congress is likely to do soon -- we should keep things in historical perspective. Yes, too many of our bridges are in bad shape -- 1 in 4 is an embarrassing number for a society as wealthy as ours. But we should acknowledge that we've done good work improving the condition of our bridges in the past, and apply those lessons to our approach to them in the future.