Jon Stewart, who hosted "The Daily Show" since the Clinton administration, will step down later this year, Comedy Central announced Tuesday. The Washington Post's Aaron Blake notes that Stewart's audience was largely young and overwhelmingly liberal. A survey from the Brookings Institution and the Public Religion Research Institute found that moreliberals trustedStewart as a source of news than CNN or MSNBC. Welcome to Wonkbook. To subscribe by e-mail, clickhere. Send comments, criticism or ideas to Wonkbook at Washpost dot com. Follow Wonkblog onTwitterandFacebook. What's in Wonkbook:1)Obama to seek new combat authority against Islamic State 2) Opinions, includingNate Cohn on Democrats' "parental agenda" 3) Indictment in New York cop's case, and more Chart of the day:Americans are eating fewer eggs than ever. Will that change now that the federal government is planning tostop warning people against foods heavy with cholesterol?Peter Whoriskey in The Washington Post. He'll ask Congress for a bill that allows for limited boots on the ground in the fight against the Islamic State. "The White House language prohibits the 'enduring' deployment of U.S. ground forces, but it does not specifically ban limited boots on the ground if the president determines they are necessary, according to a senior administration official and lawmakers who have been briefed on the proposal. The official, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the proposal, said the terminology refers to the use of Special Operations forces and other discrete missions." Karen DeYoung and Ed O'Keefe in The Washington Post. Lawmakers might well turn him down. "The request, which could come in writing as early as Wednesday morning, would open what is expected to be a monthslong debate over presidential war powers and the wisdom of committing to another unpredictable mission in the Middle East while the nation is still struggling with the consequences of two prolonged wars. ... After more than a decade of war and 7,000 American military lives lost in Iraq and Afghanistan, President Obama will face doubts not only from Democrats who want stricter limitations set on where he can send troops and how long his authority will last, but also from Republicans, who are dubious of the administrations strategy for defeating the Islamic State extremist group." Jeremy W. Peters in The New York Times. On the issue of ground troops, Obama has a compromise that satisfies neither side. "A White House sales pitch for its proposed use-of-force language ran into skepticism Tuesday from Senate Democrats, who want tighter limits on Obamas ability to send ground troops into combat and a repeal of Congress original 2001 approval of the war on terror. But making those changes could provoke trouble with hawkish Republicans, some of whom want no restrictions on the presidents ability to deploy troops against the Islamic State." Burgess Everett and Jeremy Herb at Politico. Republicans are worried that the president isn't going far enough. "If enacted, the president's AUMF could effectively constrain the next president from waging a ground war against the Islamic State group until at least 2018. ... The president's proposed AUMF would sunset in three years and would not give the president the unilateral authority to extend the authorization. That means the next president would have to come back to Congress for a new authorization in 2018, if the fight against Islamic State fighters lasts that long." Josh Rogin for Bloomberg View. Democrats worry the authority they'd grant the president would be too broad, without a clear goal. "'No one wants to get involved once again in a protracted war where we're fighting someone else's civil war,' said Rep. Xavier Becerra, who chairs the House Democratic Caucus. 'We want to make sure that we have an exit strategy, and we know what we're doing to try to make sure that the good guys come out ahead. In this case, it's a very complicated fight.'" Alex Brown and Rachel Roubein in National Journal. The request from the White House follows Obama's confirmation that Kayla Jean Mueller, a young American activist and a captive of the Islamic State, is dead. "On Tuesday U.S. President Barack Obama confirmed that Mueller had indeed been killed, promising to 'find and bring to justice the terrorists who are responsible.' ... Mueller was someone who seems to have always been drawn to helping the weak; always indignant about the unjust. ... After graduating from Northern Arizona University in 2009 after just two and a half years she set out into the world, traveling and volunteering in northern India and then in Israel and the Palestinian territories. She apparently spent the hot months of August and September of 2010 volunteering for the International Solidarity Movement, the pro-Palestinian activist group." Danna Harman in Haaretz. Meanwhile, the administration is now considering keeping troops in Afghanistan for a longer period. "The Obama administration is considering slowing its planned withdrawal from Afghanistan for the second time, according to U.S. officials, a sign of the significant security challenges that remain despite an end to the U.S. and NATO combat mission there. Under the still-evolving plans, Army Gen. John F. Campbell, the commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, could be given greater latitude to determine the pace of the drawdown in 2015 as foreign forces scramble to ensure Afghan troops are capable of battling Taliban insurgents on their own, the officials said." Missy Ryan in The Washington Post. What's the case for a new authorization now? "One of the defining features of the war that the U.S. has been waging since Sept. 11 is that the tactics, location and identity of the terrorist enemy are constantly shifting. Only the threat remains constant. To respond to it, the U.S. needs to give the commander in chief the necessary authority -- and its legislature needs to exercise the necessary oversight." Bloomberg View. NATE COHN: Democrats pursue policies meant to appeal to parents, which could prove a winning strategy. "In Washington and on the campaign trail, Democrats have struggled to formulate a policy agenda focused on the middle class. The party has instead focused on several issues that are incidental or sometimes even inimical to the perceived economic interests of many voters, like immigration overhaul, gun control and restrictions on carbon emissions. These policies have helped Democrats mobilize the 'new' coalition of young, secular and nonwhite voters that have allowed them to win recent presidential elections. But the same policies have hurt them among the traditionally Democratic but increasingly Republican Southern and Appalachian white voters who have allowed Republicans to take the House and the Senate. The parental agenda has the potential to resonate among the large group of voters with children under 18 at home, 36 percent of the electorate in 2012. It might also resonate among the already Democratic-leaning young voters of the Obama era, 18 to 29 years old in 2008, who are now entering prime childbearing years." The New York Times. EDSALL: Liberals need to worry about reform conservatives. "They are challenging Democratic domination of issues like wage stagnation, the power of the 1 percent and the diminished opportunities a majority of Americans face. The Republican appropriation of leftist populist rhetoric (and even policies) poses a significant threat to liberal prospects in 2016. They plan to bring the fight to the Democrats on their own turf." The New York Times. WALDMAN: Yes, Obama lied when he said he opposed gay marriage, according to David Axelrod. "The context of Obama's falsehood is important to understand both his own thinking and the reception his statements on the matter received. In 2008, the Democratic Party was undergoing a rapid change in its approach to same-sex marriage, and the stated positions of almost every candidate were in flux. ... By 2008, everyone seemed to understand that the position all the major Democratic candidates were taking was a temporary way-station on the path to an eventual embrace of full marriage equality. Nobody really believed that was where the party and its representatives were going to stay." The Washington Post. RICHARD TRUMKA: Why do banks pay their executives to leave for government service? "Past recipients of government golden parachutes from large financial institutions include Treasury Secretary Jack Lew (Citigroup), U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman (Citigroup) and Undersecretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce Stefan Selig (Bank of America). Government-service golden parachutes raise troubling questions. How do Wall Street banks benefit from giving their executives a financial incentive to enter government service? Do they expect to receive favorable government treatment from their former executives? And if not, why should bank shareholders be asked to bear the cost of such golden parachutes?" The Wall Street Journal. Daniel Patrick Moynihan was right about the black family. "Moynihan highlighted troubling cultural trends among inner-city blacks, with a special focus on the increasing number of fatherless homes. ... History has proved that Moynihan was onto something. When the report was released, about 25% of black children and 5% of white children lived in a household headed by a single mother. During the next 20 years the black percentage would double and the racial gap would widen. Today more than 70% of all black births are to unmarried women, twice the white percentage. For decades research has shown that the likelihood of teen pregnancy, drug abuse, dropping out of school and many other social problems grew dramatically when fathers were absent." Jason L. Riley in The Wall Street Journal. Lynching was a form of terrorism. "It is important to remember that the hangings, burnings and dismemberments of black American men, women and children that were relatively common in this country between the Civil War and World War II were often public events. They were sometimes advertised in newspapers and drew hundreds and even thousands of white spectators, including elected officials and leading citizens who were so swept up in the carnivals of death that they posed with their children for keepsake photographs within arms length of mutilated black corpses." The New York Times. A New York police officer will be indicted for shooting and killing an unarmed black man. "Officer Peter Liang, 27, who had been on the force for less than 18 months, was patrolling a darkened stairwell at the Louis H. Pink Houses in East New York when he fired a single shot that fatally struck the man, Akai Gurley, as he walked downstairs. Less than 12 hours after the shooting, Police Commissioner William J. Bratton called Mr. Gurley, 28, 'totally innocent' and characterized the shooting as an 'unfortunate accident.'" Al Baker and J. David Goodman in The New York Times. NBC News is suspending Brian Williams for six months without pay. "The suspension of Williams, who is also managing editor of the evening newscast, is unprecedented in network news history. Never before has an anchors credibility and integrity been called into so much doubt that his employer has resorted to such public disciplinary measures. ... As relatively tough as the sanction against Williams is, some observers think it wasnt enough. 'Anyone else at NBC who engaged in this conduct would have been fired immediately,' said Mark Feldstein, a University of Maryland professor of broadcasting. ... In a celebratory report aired on 'Nightly News' on Jan. 30, Williams saluted the retirement of a soldier he had befriended after Williams's helicopter landed in the Iraqi desert. But Williams misstated a key detail: that his helicopter had been damaged by ground fire and was forced to land. In fact, Williamss aircraft had not faced an attack." Paul Farhi in The Washington Post. McConnell and Boehner can't agree about how to proceed on immigration. "Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Tuesday the House will have to pass a new bill because the Senate cant pass the Houses initial legislation, which would overturn President Obamas executive actions on immigration shielding millions from deportation. 'The next move obviously is up to the House,' he told reporters following a conference meeting. Speaker John Boehners (R-Ohio) office pushed back, arguing there is 'little point in additional House action.' McConnells and Boehners offices both put the blame on Senate Democrats, who have repeatedly blocked the House bill from progressing by filibustering procedural motions." Alexander Bolton and Rebecca Shabad in The Hill. Upcoming event:Washington Post Live presents Innovation Through Collaboration, February 12th.Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator of the Small Business Administration,members of Congress and thought leaders will discuss the most successful public private partnership models and why this is the way of the future.Learn more about the event and register to attend.