Is it possible for a hot sauce to be cool and mainstream at the same time? Take the case ofSriracha, the Thaichili sauce made by California-based Huy Fong Foods that comes in a clear bottle illustrated with a rooster and carries a green cap. The company has never spent a penny on advertising, but the hot sauce has quickly become ubiquitous on the strength of insider cred and word of mouth. There have been cookbooks dedicated to the condiment, iPhone covers inspired by it, and t-shirts for those looking to flaunt their love. A full-length documentary hasbeen made about Sriracha; Trader Joes makes its own version; andTaco Bell serves an entiremenu of Mexican-ishdishes dotted with a Sriracha cream sauce. With all that exposure, Sriracha is teetering on the precipice of being too popular to be cool. And now comes Heinz Ketchup. The condiment kingis confidentenough in the hot sauce's popularity to have a go at incorporating it into its brand. The companyannounced a newaddition to its lineup of condiments: Sriracha Ketchup. The tomato-based sauce, which was officially released this week, comes infused with "spicy chili peppers and a hint of garlic," according to Heinz's website, Severalmedia outlets, including Vox, have cited Heinz's new offering as evidence of the beginning of the end of Sriracha. Vox's headline is fairly straightforward in that regard: "Sriracha ketchup is a clear sign that we've hit peak sriracha." The thinking is that if Sriracha is a fad, that fad could run it's course much in the same way that, say, cupcakes seem to be. But that line of thinking seems a bit offor least a little imprecise. If anything, Heinz's new Sriracha doesn't meanwe have reached peak Sriracha; it means wehave reached peak Sriracha coolness, which is different. Huy Fong Foods, after all, would be a lot bigger if it could manage to harvest enough chilies to meet demand, which has far outpaced supply ever since the company started making the chili sauce in the 1970s. The reason the company doesn't advertiseis because advertising would only widen that gap further, explainedDavid Tran, Huy Fong's owner and founder, saidin 2013. Huy Fong has boosted production since then, but it could still be selling a ton more.The ceiling for Sriracha sales, in other words, is much higherthan many people might think. The launch of Heinz's new ketchup will only push that ceiling higher. In some ways, it can be seen as a form of free advertising: Many people who might not have heard of the hot sauce will soon wonder what Sriracha is, Google the name, and find out. Some people who try the ketchup first might prefer it, many might not All of which is only going to diminish Sriracha's coolness, but maybe not its selling power. The future of Sriracha's street cred then,envisioned in this way, might unfoldsomething like this: