Last week, Vox's Matt Yglesias examined a study that had a depressing outlook for the labor movement. Companies that had recentlyunionized, economist Brigham Frandsen found, had lower average wages, employed fewer people and were more likely to go belly-up. Yikes! But its not usually a good idea to look at studies in isolation. Theres a lot of other research that complicates the picture. And its actually an important question: What good are unions, really? Are dues worth the investment? Although theres not a lot of evidence on freshly organized firms specifically, which Frandsen focuses on, there's no clear reason whynewly unionized firmsshouldn't grow to resemblethose that have had unions for a long time (granted, in some sectors with very low union density, being unionized could put a firm at a disadvantage -- but there can beproductivity gains as well, so death isn't inevitable). And the research there suggests that youre still better off as a union member than not. First, lets take a look at that Frandsen study (as well as alater version, which dropped in December). Frandsen looks at very close elections to create a comparable set of unions, and finds that wages declined ayear after an election(or, more precisely, the average of the period between six and 18 months after an election).He hypothesizes thats because the higher-paid workers leave to avoid beingsubject to a contract that might confine how high their salaries can go which would mean that unions drive away top talent. But that approach has some blind spots. The people leaving the firm, for example, might actually be high-paid managers who opposed the union drive. They resign in order to avoid dealing with the new reality. Also, measuring change over such a short time means that you cut out a large chunk of the progress unions can make only 38 percent of newly unionized firms have a contract in place within a year, according to a 2008 study, and 56 percent within two years. Negotiated wage increases often dont kick in for a couple of years after that. Finally, measuring only close elections means you cut out those in which the union won more decisively and strong support tends to make for better contracts. So maybe lets not take the Frandsen study as the onlyindicator of how unions affect workers and their employers. Heres some other research to keep in mind: Unions have many effects other than wages, of course. But those are more difficult to measure, so wages are a good stand-in and by that metric, a union membership card still has significant benefits, if you can get past the increasingly high hurdle of organizing a workplace.