PLOT SPOILERS! HEADS UP! TYREESE GETS BIT!! TYREESE GETS BIT!! TYREESE GETS BIT!! I mean. Just. What theBeth to end last year, and now tonight, the popcorns still warm and Tyreese, hes not really doing anything bad, just looking around in Noahs old house and WHAM. One of Noahs twin walker brothers bites him on the forearm. Then another walker bites him in the same spot a few minutes later. I guess we should have known by the Dead End sign on the door. The images that follow which flickered across the screen, out of sequence and without explanation, early in the show forms the most surreal sequence in the land of the undead. Tyreese sees, and talks to, the dead and has visions of things past. Railroad tracks disappearing into dark woods. The prison. Bob. Beth (singing an old Jimmy Cliff song, Struggling Man.). Martin. The Governor. Lizzie and Mika, who start to look sort of like those dead twin girls in The Shining. Daylight fades in an out, as does a voice on a long-dead radio, describing a horror show of atrocities. Blood pours from his arm, while Noah runs to get Rick & the Gang. This was a show about the price of living in the apocalypse, and whether Tyreeses teddy-bear nature and belief in humanity can bear up. Written by showrunner Scott M. Gimple, it dabs a toe into the pond separating life from death, asking on which shore youd rather reside. This being a horror show, there isnt a comforting answer. And here we were, so excited to finally get out of Georgia. After five seasons in the Peach State, this episode opens with our crew already at Noahs old place outside of Richmond. (The show doesnt make it clear, but Gimple told Entertainment Weekly in an interview that it took them about two weeks to make the 500-mile trek.) Its a gated community, where he, his mother and twin younger brothers were living. He took off to Atlanta to find other relatives and is only now having a chance to come back. Rick and a crew of four others Noah, Tyreese, Glenn and Michonne approach the place through the woods. They have walkie-talkies now and radio back to Carol and the rest, apparently at a spot of few miles back down the road, that theyll tell them if its safe. After crossing through the wire Noah and his fellow hometowners had strung around the perimeter, its obvious the walkers overran it long ago. In part, this is because a sign identifies it as Shirewilt Estates, a play on the horrific Wiltshire Estates in the comics. Worse, a few walkers still toddle around. Noah collapses, inconsolable. While Rick, Glenn and Michonne set out to scavenge the place, Tyreese stays to give him a pep talk. This is not the end, he says. But when Noah runs off to his house to find his family, things go south. Mom is dead in a front room, her head blown up and body rotting. While Noah covers the corpse, Tyreese goes down the hall, lured by a noise. He goes into the bedroom of Noahs younger twin brothers. One is a rotting corpse on the bed. Ignoring that, Tyreese is mesmerized by old pictures of the happy boys tacked to the wall and, while gazing, the other kid, a walker, comes up behind andbites him on the forearm! Noah runs to get the others, who have decided they should try to make it up to Washington. Tyreeses life is leaving him. Visions come and go. The Governor shows up to tell him hes got to pay the bill. Bob says this is just how things were always going to be. The girls, smiling weirdly, tell him not just that its going to be okay, its going to be better. Tyreese tells them defiantly that he knows whats happening and whats going on (the title of the show), and he still believes that his humane view of life is the right one. The governor approachesand turns into a walker! Tyreese snaps out of it and wedges his wounded arm into the things mouth in order to beat him over the head and kill him. Now bleeding profusely, hes leaving this world. Beth is strumming a guitar and singing, the girls are stroking his blood-soaked arm with beatific smilesand they turn into Rick! Who is holding his arm outstretched, Glenn holds Tyreeses body and when Rick shouts One shot, clean, go! Michonne whacks it off near the shoulder with the sword. They sprint for the truck. But when pulling out, Rick hits the back of a covered wagon and severed bodies, cut off at the midsection, spill out. They are the top halves of dismembered bodies we saw earlier at the fence outside the housing development, which were their lower halves. Obviously, were going to be hearing more about this later. Rick is roaring down the road, radioing to Carol that theyre going to have to cauterize the arm, but Tyreese is barely with them. He sees Beth driving, looking back at him (pay attention to the road, undead Beth!), Bob smiling at him from the front seat, the sunlight fading in and out. Turn it off, he says. The shot changes from being inside the truck to behind it. We see the brake lights come on. Rick and the others get out and pull his body from the truck. We cut to dirt being shoveled. Its a repeat image from the first of the show, which appeared at the time to be for Beths funeral. Its Tyreeses. Hes gone, his wool cap set across two sticks tied into the shape of a cross. In the land of the dead, belief in the living is a vice, not a virtue. Were sorry, Tyreese. But we had you at 13-1 to die in the last show. So it goes.