Hotel companies are racing to woo the next generation of travelers and at Marriott International, its come down to this: Free Internet, craft beers and a menu full of small plates. The companys AC Hotels by Marriott, a line of boutique hotels founded in Spain, will make its local debut at National Harbor next month with a number of amenities aimed at millennial guests. A 192-room, eight-story Aloft Hotel, which closed last month for renovations, will reopen under the new brand. It will have 3,700 square feet of meeting space, as well as outdoor terraces with views of the Potomac River. Were not trying to recreate something else here, said Tina Edmundson, global brand officer for luxury and lifestyle at Bethesda-based Marriott. What AC has done in Europe has proven to be so successful. It is a modern, design-led hotel. A communal library will provide guests a quiet area to work or hang out, while the hotels AC Lounge will offer wines on tap and handcrafted cocktails. Bartenders will be encouraged to chat with guests and offer them tips on local attractions.We understand luxury and efficiency, but we also know modern hotels need to be comfortable for the client, Antonio Catalan, founder and president of AC Hotels, said in an interview. When it opens in March, the hotel will be the brands third in the United States. The first opened in New Orleans in November, and a location in Kansas City is expected to follow in the coming weeks. The move is part of a broader shift within the company to focus on its luxury and lifestyle brands, which make up about 25 percent of Marriotts overall portfolio. Over the last five to seven years, weve seen a shift in what consumers want, Edmundson said. We understand luxury and efficiency, but modern hotels also need to be comfortable for the client. Four of the six brands Marriott considers luxury and lifestyle Edition, Autograph Collection, Moxy Hotels and AC were introduced in the last seven years. (The other two, J.W. Marriott and Ritz-Carlton, have been around since 1984 and 1995, respectively.) Marriott already manages a much-larger hotel at National Harbor: The Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center, which has 2,000 hotel rooms and 89 meeting spaces. Overflow from the sprawling convention center hotel is also expected to help fill rooms at the upcoming AC Hotel down the street. The brand, founded in 1998, includes more than 75 hotels throughout Spain, Italy, Portugal and France. Marriott took over AC Hotels in 2011, with plans to import it to major cities throughout the United States. Deals have already been signed for more than 50 AC Hotels set to open in the United States and Latin America in the next three years, Edmundson said. The properties will be clustered in metropolitan urban markets and the vast majority about 70 percent will be built from the ground up.