D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) is feudingwith proponentsof a planned contemporary art museumover the future of the Franklin School, with the mayor putting the brakes on the project for a supposed lack of fundraising thatits supporters say is not a concern. Under Mayor Vincent. C. Gray, the Districts planwas to turn the Franklin School, a vacant former homeless shelter downtown, into a home for contemporary art exhibitions, similar to New York Citys Park Avenue Armory, with a restaurant downstairs by famed chefJos Andrs. Barely three weeks into her administration, Bowser (D) has set the project aside, withdrawing legislation that would authorizeit andfiring the project manager overseeing it. Her staff asserted thatthe projects supporters, led by local art collector and businessmanDani Levinas, had missed fundraising deadlines, which Levinas and his supporterssteadfastly dispute. Bowsers reluctance to approve the museum planis the latest chapter in a decades worth of effortsto re-use a building that is cherished for its historic past and stately architecture, butdifficult to redevelop. Designed by Smithsonian architect AdolfCluss and built in 1869, the Franklin School was the site of experiments by telephone inventor Alexander Graham Bell and became the Districts first high school. D.C.slast three mayors, Anthony A. Williams, Adrian M. Fenty and Gray, all tried to put the building back to productiveuse.Butitremains vacant and in decrepit condition plagued byrodent infestation and a leaking roof after years of poor maintenance when it was used as a homeless shelter. It is so closely defendedby historic preservation rules that even the interior walls may not be reconfigured. Gray selected the museum plan after receiving pitches from four development teams. Levinas partnered with D.C. developer EastBanc to propose turning the building into an art space calledthe Institute for Contemporary Expression, capable of large-scale, highly visible temporary exhibitions that traditional museums are often unable to accommodate. Levinas and EastBanc committed to raising $13.2 million for the project, and planned to generatefuture revenue by charging patrons for entry after the museum opened. Pay-to-entry museums have not always fared wellin Washington, where free museums are abundant, and Bowser made her reservations about the project clear when she was on the D.C. Council. On Oct. 3 of last year, Gray submitted a bill to approve the Franklin School deal, but Bowser, chair of the economic development committee, never brought it up for a vote. As mayor, the deal fell immediately into her cross-hairs, and she withdrew it Jan. 27. Members of her economic development team, speaking on the condition of anonymity because incoming Deputy Mayor Brian Kenner had not joined the administration, said Levinas and his team had missed fundraising deadlines. Its taken a very long time and theyre nowhere near their goal, one official said. But Levinas and Anthony Lanier, owner of EastBanc, said thatthe fundraising timeline doesnt beginuntil the council and mayor approve the deal for the building. They said the agreementstipulated that the projectraise half of therequired money, a sum of nearly $7 million, within a year of the bills passage. The language is very clear, Levinas said. It says three days after the council approval the 365 days start, to raise 50 percent. Levinas said fundraising thus far was doing great and that he had met all his internal goals. He said Bowsers staff had never asked how much had been raised. How do they know if we dont have the money? They havent even asked us, he said. Lanier said it was the District that had not lived up to its part of the bargain.Its been sitting at the council. I cant explain why it was not moved forward or why it is not moving forward, he said. A former D.C. official familiar with the project, speaking anonymously to avoid crossing the administration, agreed that the timeline to secure dollars for the project hadnt begun. They werent even supposed to start fundraisinguntil after the [agreement] got executed, the official said. At nearlythe same time they were informed that themuseumwas being put on hold, Levinas and Lanier say they were also told that the citys staffer for the project,Reyna Alloro, had beenabruptly dismissed from her job. Alloro declinedcomment. Mayoral spokesmanJoaquin McPeek declined to provide the proposed fundraising timeline because doing so would compromise the competitive process.Bowser said in a speech to a real estate group last week that she was performing atop-down review of the citys real estate portfolio, and McPeek said the review of Franklin was part of that process. We have a responsibilityto the residents of the District that whatever projects that are in our pipelineare viable and able to be delivered to the District, he said. He declined to discuss Alloros dismissal, saying it was a personnel matter. Council member Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), whose district includes Franklin, said he had asked the mayor to look at it as quickly as she can. Franklin has been a difficult projectfor many, many, many years so finally with Anthony Laniers proposal we have a projectthat appears workable, so I was hoping we could go forward with it, he said. An earlier version of this story misspelled AdolfCluss. Follow Jonathan OConnell on Twitter: @oconnellpostbiz