Another titan of industry in Tysons Corner, Gannett, might departits corporate headquarters as it splits into two companies and seeks cost savings. Gannett, publisher of USA Today and other newspapers and media properties, will consider selling its headquarters and relocating, Chief Executive Gracia C. Martore told employees Tuesday. Gannetts headquarters comprise two Tysons Corner office towers it owns at 7960 Jones Branch Dr., a total of about785,000 square feet. A possible move comes as Gannett preparestosplit itself in twoto better focusone company ondigital and broadcasting businesses and the other on the flagship newspaper. This is part of ourtransitionto more efficient use of our real estate across the company, Gannett spokesman Jeremy Gaines said inan e-mail. Gaines addedthe company plans to remain in the Washington area, but in selling its towers a prominent sightfrom the Capital Beltway Gannett couldbecome the latest major employer to decide it no longer needs a large presence in Fairfax County, denting the countys reputation as a landing spot for large corporations. Contracting giant SAIC, after splitting into two companies, moved one of the two units from Tysons to Reston. Exxon Mobil plans to completely abandon its 117-acre Fairfax County campus this summer, moving many of the jobs to Houston. SAIC sold its campus to a developer; Exxon has been trying to sell its campus as well. Speculation about whether Gannett would sell its headquarters has been swirling in recent years as the company restructured. Entities including the World Bank haveconsidered buyingthe complex, but last winterGannetts brokers insisted that the property was not for sale and that thecompanywould lease sparespace. That proved difficult as federal spending slows and government contractors cut back. Gannettfound sometenants, but leasing slowed dramatically in recent years, with vacancy rates well above average in neighborhoodsthroughout Arlington, Fairfax and Loudoun counties. With the arrival of the Silver Line,building owners in Tysons have been somewhat spared. The vacancy rate in Tysons is 9.2 percent, compared to 13.6 in Northern Virginia, according to research firm Delta Associates. Other firms estimate Northern Virginia vacancy at above 15 percent. By selling the buildings,Martore couldcreate some cash upfront and take advantage of the slowdown in leasing, as The Washington Post did recently in selling its downtown headquarters and agreeing to lease space a few blocks away. Gannett was ranked No. 481 on the Fortune 500 in 2014, one of a slew of Fortune 500 firms in Tysons, including Hilton Worldwide and Capital One. Gannett reported adjusted fourth quarter net income of $234.8 million, up 54 percent from a year ago. Follow Jonathan OConnell on Twitter: @oconnellpostbiz