A month into office, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser said she will stick with her commitment to bring down housing costs for D.C. residents despite now facing a budget gap of at least $83 million this year. At a luncheon held Thursday at the Willard Hotel by the local outfit of Commercial Real Estate Women, Bowser (D) reiterated a campaign promise toinvest $100 million annually in affordable housing even as not yet a month in office she has toldagency directors to findcost savings of between 5 and 8 percent. Over the next two years, the District faces about a $200 million budget gap,a number that could grow if the citybegins paying almost $47 million in overtime wages firefighters say they are owed. Bowser said she was performing a top down review of the citys real estate portfolio in order to maximize affordable housing and advance smaller, neighborhood-level projects like one on the site of a former Big K Liquor Store in Anacostia. Shesaidshe was focusing on the huge transformative projects that every corner of our city has, but also the neighborhood projects that when a Washingtonian walks out of his or her door, whethers its Big K on Martin Luther King Avenue or whether its in Fort Totten near where I live. These are the types of projects that affect how people live each and every day. I wont be the mayor who says slow down growth, she said. But she added:Its important to me as we move forward that we continue to think about how we grow in our city. As chair of the D.C. Councils economic development committee, Bowser sometimeschided officials under former mayor Vincent C. Gray for not putting affordable housing subsidies to work. With the $100 million promise, that concern is now hers. Bowser said she would begin staffing up the Department of Housing and Community Development, run by new director Polly Donaldson, but shehas not yet announced who will fill the newly created role of deputy mayor for economic opportunity. Her deputy mayor for planning and economic development, Brian Kenner, begins work Feb. 2. The administration has also begun incorporating new affordable housing rules passedin the fallrequiring up to 30percent of the housing created on District-owned land be set aside for residents with low-to-moderate incomes. As a councilmember, Bowser supported the bill but also amendments that werent to the likingof affordable housing advocates. The new rules are expected to go into effect this spring and Bowsers economic development staff said they had begun instituting the requirements on three projects in Northwest. Those projects are the redevelopment of the former Grimke School andproperty at 965 Florida Ave. NW, both in the U Street corridor, as well asa third parcel near the intersection of 8th and O streets NW. Gray selected developers for all the projects but the dealshave not yet been approved by the D.C. Council, giving Bowser the chance to restart the deals if they are not to her liking. Were going to press forward in some cases. Were going to make some changes in other cases, Bowsersaid. Bowser also said she was determining how best to move forward with techand retail investments, saying she didnt want to finish second to Boston as Washington did in its bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics when it came to attracting technology companies. In Boston theres a critical mass of companies, which means theres a critical mass of opportunities..and thats what we need to have here, she said. Gray originally proposed turning one of the citys largest redevelopment sites, the east campus of the former St. Elizabeths hospital, into a tech campus, and selected a development teamfor the project on one of his final days as mayor. Bowser said she wasnt sure yet if that was the best approach, saying a campus set aside for tech wasmore important to some than it is to others. Follow Jonathan OConnell on Twitter: @oconnellpostbiz