When Dan Ariely first heard the Brian Williams news that the popular anchor had apologized formisstatements about a personal experienceduringthe Iraq War his first thoughtwas about the irony. Ariely, abehavioral economist and Duke professor, had just wrapped up making a documentary on the topic of dishonesty. Inpartof thefilm, he features the story of Marilee Jones, the dean of admissions at MIT who admitted to misrepresenting her academic degrees. That section included footage ofnone other thanBrian Williams reporting on Jones'story. "We finished the movie two days before this broke, and we couldn't decide if we should add something to the movie, or just enjoy the irony," Ariely said in an interview. Of course,Ariely has given much morethought towhy people lie than to that cutting-room decision. His 2013 book The Honest Truth About Dishonestyexplored why everyone does it, what subjects people fibabout the mostand how we lie even to ourselves. He's also thought plenty about what may have led Williams to make the claims he did and how he should respond now. We asked Ariely for his take on those points, and hehighlighted something he's found in his research on dishonesty: People often cheat and lieto help other people."We call this altruistic cheating," Arielysaid. "In all kinds of cases, people actually take tremendous risk for themselves for the benefit of some other goal." While we don't know exactly what motivated Williams, the anchordid say in his on-air apology last weekthat the most recent time he made the claim intributeto a retired soldier who provided ground security on the day in question was "a bungled attempt by me to thank one special veteran and, by extension, our brave military men and women,veterans everywhere, those who have served while I did not." Could the effort tohighlight the work of service membershave played a role in why Williams inflated his claims? Ariely thinks it couldhave. "Look, the guy doesn't need to grandiose himself. His career is going incredibly well. I think the way he was trying to do it was to basicallyuse himself to make this story more interesting, more powerful." Still, Arielyspeculated there's likelymore to itthan just that. Much researchhas examined why we have false memories, and he said some of it shows that oncethere are images to connect with a story,as theywould be in a television broadcast,"we start confusing where the story is from," a phenomenon called "source monitoring." Arielyalso citedthe increasingly fuzzy line between entertainment and journalism, especially for an anchor who's become known as much for slow jamming the news with late night host Jimmy Fallon as he has for reporting it. "We have to remember that in a world in which he does both news and entertainment, it's incredibly tough for him to keep the boundary," Ariely said. But if an eagerness to help draw attentionto veterans did in fact play a role in Williams' false claims, wouldn't that be a good line of defense? Should Williams explain that his exaggeration sprang from adesireto help? Would the public sympathize with that rationale? Ariely doesn'tthink so, even if it weretrue. He saidpeople tendto think of lies asintentional, or pre-planned. "People don't understand how dishonesty works," he said. "They think it's a little bit like eyewitness testimony, that there's an objective reality. What people don'tunderstand is the fuzzy nature of our reasoning power." As a result, Ariely said, the public isunlikely to accept an explanationthat goes against the way they inherently think about lying. "People are not going to intuit [an effort to help]as the real reason, even though most people do it," he said. "What I do think would help is just asking for forgiveness. We've all had mistakes. It would certainly color him to some degree, but the right approach is just to admit the mistake and move on." The challenge, of course, is that research also shows people are far more willing to forgive themselves than they are to forgive others. "We see the mitigating circumstances of our ownbehavior, but for other people, we have much more attribution of personality to what they do," Ariely said. In other words, we can rationalize our own lies as exceptions to who we really are, but are more likely to seeanother person's false claims as indicative of their true character. ForWilliams, it remains to be seen whether his previouslongtime public image as trustworthy will beenough to override thattendency of ours. Read also: Does sitting at a big desk make you cheat? Dan Ariely wants to help you manage your time Like On Leadership? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.