Tuesday night on The Daily Show, Jon Stewart saved his bombshell newsfor the closing moments of the program that after hosting the show since 1999, he will be stepping down this year. [RELATED: Jon Stewart's hardest truth: The time has come to wrap up the joke] As this show is airing, there may be information out there right now that the audience might not be aware of, so I will just tell you, Stewart said to a likely confused studio audience. The Viacom president, Doug Herzog, and Comedy Central president Michelle Ganeless, he continued, gave me an incredible opportunity 17 years ago to pilot this wonderful franchise. And 17 years is the longest I have ever in my life held ajob by 16 years and five months. [RELATED: Jon Stewart will be leaving "The Daily Show"] There was a polite smattering of applause. Thank you! Stewart continued. The upshot there being, I am a terribleemployee. But in my heart I know it is time for someone else to have that opportunity. The studio audience, finally catching on, started to protest. I told you they didnt know! Stewart exclaimed. Then he got down to business: Not right away. Were still working on details. Im up in September, might be around then. Might be December, might be July, were still working out details, he said, referring to his contract status. So whats next? I dont have any specific plans, he offered. I got a lot of ideas, I got a lot of things in my head. Im going to have dinner on a school night with my family; who, I have heard from multiple sources, are lovely people. Then, he got emotional. You know, Im not going to be here and try and sum up what this place has meant to me over the years. I couldnt do that, he said. And we have plenty of time, and Ive got a myriad of people to thank, and well get to that over time. Im not going anywhere tomorrow. But this show doesnt deserve an even slightly restless host, and neither do you. I dont think Im going to miss being on television every day; Im going to miss coming here every day, he said, clearly starting to tear up as he went on. I love the people here, theyre the best. Theyre creativeand collaborative and kind and thats alliterative but its cheating, because its a K you understand what Im saying. I love them and respect them so much. We love you, Jon! yelled someone in the audience, breaking the tension just in time, as it looked like Stewart was about to cry. He wrapped with this: Its been an absolute privilege. Its been the honor of my professional life. And I thank you forwatchingit, for hate-watching it. Whatever reason you are tuning in for! he said. You get in this business with the idea that maybe you have a point of view and something to express and to receive the feedback from that is the greatest feeling I could ask for. Then, he ended with his Moment of Zen bit: This time, a monkey washing a cat in a sink. [This post, originally published at 11:54 p.m. on Tuesday, has been updated to include video of the announcement.]