Within minutes on Tuesday night, two major media stories exploded. The first detonated around7 p.m. Comedy Central announced on Twitter that Jon Stewart, the longtime host of The Daily Show,will step down later this year after more than 16 years running the show. Then, less than an hour later, the Brian Williams bomb dropped. NBCdispatched a letter sayingit had suspended its lead anchor, who weathered days of intense scrutiny following his admission he hadcooked up a personal tale of Iraq bravery, for six months. Without pay. It wasnt long before the murmurs started through Twitter, through Facebook, through the nether reaches of the Internet. They called for something that at first seemed totally insane but, as it sank in, began to make sense: Jon Stewart, now as much a newsman as a comedian, and Brian Williams, now as much a comedian as a newsman, should just switch chairs. Let that marinate for a moment. Please raise your hand if you want Jon Stewart to replace Brian Williams at NBC? wrote Steven Greenhouse of the New York Times. A Miami journalist then placed afake Guardian story on Facebook under the headline, Jon Stewart leaves The Daily Show to anchor NBC Nightly News following Brian Williams departure. (Clicking on this link, however, led the reader to a Rick Astleyvideo.) NPRs Scott Simon had this to say: I cant be the first person to notice that Brian Williams &Jon Stewart both seem available in about 6months. Even @TheTweetOfGod, with his 1.8 million followers, got into the mix. He offered:Jon Stewart leaving. Brian Williams looking for work. Its almost TOO obvious, isnt it. @TheTweetOfGodhas a point. Heres why: Despite his protestations to the contrary, Jon Stewart is not exclusively a comedian. Hiscareer has careened from procuringdoobiesin Half Baked to directing the substantive film, Rosewater, asobering tale of a captured journalist in Iran. More and more, he has admitted hes grown tiredof comedy. While promoting Rosewater last year, he told NPR that he loves his job as the host of The Daily Show. That being said, I think there are moments when you realize that thats not enough anymore, or maybe its time for some discomfort. On Tuesday night he affirmed his restive spirit. This show doesnt deserve an even slightly restless host, and neither do you. Stewart has become as much a serious media man as anything else. (Remember, NBC reportedly offered him the plumb job of host of Meet the Press.) And most Americans agree. In 2008, Pew Research took a poll, asking which journalist they most admired. Stewart finished fourth. Are Americans confused? Pew asked in its release. They werent. The Daily Show closely resembles the news agenda of a number of cable news programs as well as talk radio, Pew continued. The program also makes heavy use of news footage, often in a documentary way that employs archival video to show contrast and contradiction, even if the purpose is satirical rather than reportorial. Another journalist finished right ahead of Stewart in the poll. It was Williams, who had already sat in NBCs anchor chair for years, and was authoring a much quieter, but no less remarkable transition the oppositeof Stewarts own. Williamswas becoming a comedian. Brian Williams: The funniest guy in the room, Esquire sang in 2005. What do you do call a former fireman from Jersey with a surprisingly quirky wit and no college degree? Anchorman. But this anchor had gifts of showmanship more than any other major anchor of the modern era. He could make em laugh. This abilityarguably broughtmore celebrity than even his best journalism. Im forever getting approached in airports by people who say, I saw you on Jon Stewart, he commented in the Esquire article. I didnt know you Theres an uncomfortable pause, and I feel compelled to take them off the hook and finish the sentence: had a personality at all? As other anchors such as Katie Couric foundered in a new media environment cluttered with the likes of John Oliver and Stephen Colbert, Williamss mixture of sternness at the news podium and irreverence on David Lettermans showmade him unique. Though his career in comedy may have started by happenstance, Williams has managed to stay in the conversation because he can speak in the vernacular of his new competition, New York Magazine writer John Swansburg said. Williamsgot spot after spot on The Daily Show, Late Show with David Lettermanand Late Night with Jimmy Fallon. He acted in 30 Rock. He did Saturday Night Live. He evenlobbied NBC to give him Jay Lenos chair at The Tonight Show a few years ago,as several outlets reported on Tuesday. Brian wants to be a late-night comedian, one former colleague told New York. While lobbying,he exercised hiscomedic chops, dropping an epic bit on Morning Joe when heroasted the New York Times earnest, baffled coverage of Brooklyn. Once a day, theres a story about all the riches offered in that borough, Williams said as the other broadcasters cracked up. There are young men and women wearing ironic glasses frames on the streets. There are open-air markets, like trading posts in the early Chippewa tribe, where you can make beads at home and then trade them for someone to come over and start a small fire in your apartment that you share with nine others. Artisanalcheeses, for sale on the streets of an entire American borough. Its fascinating to watch the paper venture over the bridge. Venture through the tunnel. Go out to the outer reaches. This was very funny. And very accurate. Its a combination that Jon Stewart is also pretty good at. So letshonor Twitter Gods words: Lets switch onefor the other. As one Redditor pointed out: Williams has already proven himself to be good at fake news. More from Morning Mix Jon Stewart leaving The Daily Show this year Brian Williams perhaps misremembered dangers of Katrina, hotel manager says