Robin Givhan, The Washington Posts Pulitzer-winning fashion critic, is covering New York Fashion Week. See her stories on Style Blog and follow her on Twitter: @robingivhan. Designer Charles Harbison is preparing to present his fourth womenswear collectionto editors and retailers. He is not ready. Not even close. So he has been praying. He has been praying that New York will not get any more snow, that he will not have any more fabric delays and that the knitwear he is introducing into his fall 2015 line will make it from concept to garment in time for his presentation on February 17. Theres a lot of things hanging in the balance, he says. Im just trying not to worry about it. But for designers who are just beginning to build their own brands his is simply called Harbison now is the time to fret. Heis just settling into the idea of having to create not only an inventive collection, but also one that will make sense to consumers once it is hanging on racks in a crowded clothing store and hes no longer there to explain the philosophy behind his color-blocked trousers, or how much time and angstwent into a sweater, or how important it is to him personally and professionally to manufacture in New York. [Rosie Assoulin: A female designer infiltrates fashions boy wonder club] Harbison grew up in North Carolina, inspired by his mother and her sense of style. He didnt major in fashion in college but he followed his passion and interned at Michael Kors. He launched his own collection in 2013. His point-of-view is tailored, but not austere. Call it controlled drama. He embraces punchy prints and strong colors. He was one of the many designers who were invited to the White House for first lady Michelle Obamas fashion workshop last fall, where he was dazzled and energized. He also has received encouragement and advice from influential editors at Vogue magazine. And for fall 2015, he has a new muse: Beverly Johnson,who in 1974 becamethe first African-American model to appear on the cover of Vogue. Designers often talk about having a muse. But what exactly defines a muse, and what do they do? First, Harbison was awed by the fashion history that Johnson represented. Meeting her, shes so easy and elegant, and she navigates with a quiet comfort, Harbison says. How she wears the clothes is so languid. And she has a tomboy sensibility; she walked in wearing penny loafers! Being a male designer, its important for me to draw from the women in my life, he says. I love her courage and carriage. (Johnson has been in the news as one Bill Cosbys dozens of accusers, writing in an essay for Vanity Fair that he drugged her.) [New York Fashion Week: Will menswear outshine womenswear?] Harbisons fall collection was inspired by his ongoing interest in artist Brice Mardenand the way in which the American abstract painter uses color and pattern in his work. And if there is one piece out of the 21 looks he will show for fall for which he has special affection, its those color-blocked pants. A statement pant is not what a woman normally gravitates to, he says. But I think theyre intellectual and feminist. And hopefully, the knits will arrive in time so his models have something to wear on top.