Malia Obamas college search is ramping up. In a ritual familiar to many a high-school kid and her parents, the eldest First Daughtervisited a couple of New York City schoolslast week, where she kicked the proverbial tires (whats the cafeteria food like? do the dorms have WiFi?) of NYU, Barnard, and Columbia, according to news reports. The globe-trotting Malia, now a junior at Sidwell Friends, isnt confining herself to East Coast campuses she toured UC Berkeley and Stanford (whose graduatesinclude her fellow Sidwell/White House alum Chelsea Clinton-Medvinsky) last summer. Thousands of other kids might be on the campus-tour circuit, too, butlets face it an applicant whose name ends with Obama isnt just any high-schooler. Malias college choices have been much discussed. Willshe follow her parents footsteps? Her dad did his undergraduate work atColumbia, and her mom at Princeton. Is she looking for a good film-studies program (President Obama says she wants to study the medium)? She made headlines just by sporting a Stanford T-shirt on a family bike ride last summer. And that famous name is certain to make admission officials take note. Colleges will be vying for her, says Steven Roy Goodman, a D.C.-based consultant who has advised plenty of kids whose parentsrank among the elitemovers and shakers.Goodman says, though, that children of celebrities arent automatically admitted to their dream schools. Even they have to prove they can do the work. Still, an admission application bearinga recognizable name is often kicked up the chain of command, consultants say, to the admissions director or even a college president. Another VIP difference? The college-tour experience. Goodmansays its often tailored to meet a high-profileprospective students interests. Its like travelling first-class: One can fly coach to London and take the tube, he says. Or you can fly in the good seats and be greeted at the airport by your driver. Katherine Cohen, an New York admissions consultant favored by the moneyed Upper East Side set, says that despite itshigh profile and special-access perks, Malias college search should have the same focus as any kids. Hopefully, they are making the process about her. Read more Reliable Source: 5 Minutes with celebrity interior designer Michael Smith How VIPs mourned Washington cultural force Ina Ginsburg What was Kiss frontman Gene Simmons doing hanging out with Washingtons military elite?