Downtown Silver Spring 8500 - 8700 Colvesville Road Home of the AFI Silver Theatre and the Fillmore, downtown Silver Spring has experienced a renaissance in the past decade, evolving from a quiet city center into a lively arts and entertainment hub. Spend the day roaming; make friends with a life-size T. rex; or dine on authentic Ethiopian or Italian cuisine. The Fillmore Silver Spring 8656 Colesville Rd. (301) 960-9999 Thousands of signatures of performers grace the backstage walls, a tradition at this 2,000-capacity concert hall. All of the gig posters hanging behind the three bars and depicted in the large collage in the main hall are custom-designed by artists who are fans of the performers. A few musical acts receive a copy of their custom posterafter the concert as a gift. You might catch performers dining out before showtime at 8407 Kitchen Bar or celebrating afterward at McGintys Public House and Quarry House Tavern. www.fillmoresilverspring.com Discovery Communications headquarters 1 Discovery Pl. You cant miss the 13-foot-tall, 40-foot-long replica T. rex skeleton towering over the lobby. Stan, a fixture since the global media conglomerates arrival in 2003, is named after amateur paleontologist Stan Sacrison, who discovered the original remains in 1987. Also, catch George Rhoadss intricate kinetic sculpture transfixing for kids and adults alike. Da Marco Italian Restaurant 8662 Colesville Rd. 301-588-6999 Regulars love Da Marcos Tuesday pizza night, featuring thin-crust, Roman-style pizzas. Other days, try the housemade pasta and wash it down with a Grappatini (what owner Marco Fortinirefers to as Italian moonshine). But dont come by on Sundays. Since Fortinis parents opened the restaurant in 1979, that night is reserved for family. www.damarcorestaurant.com Abol Ethiopian 8626 Colesville Rd. 301-650-0061 I cook it just like home, says owner and chef T. Mamo, who has been in the restaurant business since managing her parents restaurant in Dire Dawa, Ethiopia, at 17. Customers praise her chicken and lamb stew and her kitfo, a traditional dish made of finely chopped tender sirloin that Mamo seasons with herbed butter sauce and serves with homemade cheese. www.abolethiopian.com AFI Silver Theatre and Cultural Center 8633 Colesville Rd. 301-495-6700 Check out the silver wave pattern inlaid on the lobby doors. This 1938art deco movie, built by architect John Eberson, was designed to evoke the feeling of boarding a luxurious ocean liner (the height of modernity of the era, mind you). The venue is a favorite spot for screenings of classics and foreign movies and documentaries. www.afi.com/Silver/ For more areas to explore, visit StrollAround.com. For stories, features such as Date Lab, Gene Weingarten and more, visit WP Magazine. Follow the Magazine on Twitter. Like us on Facebook. E-mail us at wpmagazine@washpost.com.