By design, Korean barbecue brings people together around a cast-iron plate sizzling with caramelized meats, their smoke and aromas serving as an indoor campfire right at the table. The full sensory experience the concrete-and-corrugated-tin atmosphere, the free-flowing beer, the do-it-yourself lettuce wraps only contributes to the noisy, expansive nature of the cuisine. And yet if you put enough televisions in front of people, almost any communal experience can turn insular, just you and the boob tube locked into a one-way conversation at least until the refs overturn your teams touchdown on further review. Over at Kangnam BBQ Sports Bar & Grill in College Park, theyre testing the limits of Korean barbecues ability to serve as a social lubricant when surrounded by that great electronic distraction called professional sports. Except Kangnam cant seem to fully embrace its concept of meat, two ways those releasing their juices on a blistering grill and those beefy specimens, juiced up and playing for millions on ESPN. Most of the flat-screens at this Korean man cave are in the bar, which sports the usual neon beer signs and team flags but not a single tabletop grill. Back in the main dining room, where each table comes outfitted with built-in burners, TVs are parceled out like disaster rations. Many diners will need a giraffe neck to view their game. Or some patience. One Sunday, while TV analysts argued which teams still had enough bodies intact to continue their funereal march to the Super Bowl, I arrived at Kangnam with an appetite for meat and mayhem. I ordered an appetizer (tteokbokki, these righteously chewy rice tubes, like mozzarella string cheese, except spicy and paired with fish cakes for a soft pungency) and a main (dolsot bibimbap, topped with rich-but-gristly short ribs and concealing a subterranean layer of caramelized rice, as crisp and sticky as taffy). But my space was soon overrun with bowls, large and small, as a collection of cold and fermented banchan snacks arrived, those standard grace notes of the Korean table. The only thing missing was, well, a side of football. The flat-screen above my head plodded along, offering the slow-drip oiliness of a public telethon, on mute. When I asked the staff to switch stations to something more action-packed, like a knitting tournament, they appeared puzzled. They had no pre-typed list of games available, no NFL RedZone package, no immediate idea of what stations were carrying live football. I wound up watching a highlights station, which provided all the surprises of a greatest hits album. Like an athlete with raw talent, but no idea how to channel it, Kangnam doesnt yet know its own limitations. Or put another way, the place still thinks it can be a multi-sport star, playing baseball in summer, football in fall and basketball in winter; it hasnt absorbed the lesson that to be a real standout, you need to focus all attention and energy on a single mission. When I first started casing Kangnam back in November, the operation was still selling sushi, at a buffet in the far back of the restaurant. On my next visit a couple of weeks later, the Japanese fare had been pared back to the weekends, a server told me. By the turn of the new year, it was toast. It was a wise breakup; the nigiri sushi, chewy and bland, was a real cold fish. The disappearing sushi trick is sort of symbolic: The menu and perhaps even the restaurants conceptual underpinnings seem to change every time I step into Kangnam. When I first visited, the barbecue buffet was available for lunch. The spread, including banchan snacks, has since been scaled back to late afternoons and evenings only, and now Kangnam offers separate, sports-themed barbecue combos, including a Redskins special of chicken bulgogi and pork ribs (the cheapest of the six combo options, which may or may not be a slap at a team owner notorious for sticking his hands into fans wallets). No matter what form your barbecue takes, Kangnam generally compares well to its better-known counterparts in Annandale, although the College Park establishment doesnt offer such off-cuts as tripe and tongue likely trying to avoid an ick response from the dormitory crowd. Regardless, a soy-and-rice-wine-vinegar marinade helps break down the bulgogi to these glistening scraps of beef, rich enough to counteract the moderately potent kimchi, the heady decay of ssamjang sauce or anything else you care to stuff into your lettuce wraps. The thinly sliced brisket grills down to shriveled ribbons, their charred fat supplying much of the flavor. The uncured pork belly pales by comparison, but the chewy squares provide more texture than their beef cousins when rolled up in romaine. Outside the barbecue menu, I found the fried seafood pancake appetizer, approximately the size of a manhole cover, filling enough to stand in as dinner, each salty square densely threaded with squid, shrimp and green onions. The staff will have to prepare the seafood hot pot on a nearby four-top if youve already fired up the grill at your table; theyll then serve the molten liquid in separate bowls, the broth radiating the sweet, delicate perfume of crab amid its tangle of fat noodles. On my last visit, I tried a bacon, egg and cheese sandwich, part of an American-style breakfast and lunch menu recently installed at Kangnam, its latest attempt to lure the locals. Its a Hail Mary pass thats bound to fall helplessly to the ground. 8503 Baltimore Ave., College Park. 301-220-1635. www.kangnambbqusa.com. Hours:Sunday-Thursday, 7 a.m. to midnight; Friday-Saturday, 7 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. Nearest Metro:College Park/University of Maryland, with a 1.5-mile trip to the restaurant. Prices:$2.79 to $139 for a barbecue dinner that serves 6 to 8 people.