Valentines Day is on a Saturday this year, which is a mixed blessing. The positives: You get to spend the whole day with your sweetie! No rushing from work to the florist and to a restaurant! The negatives: Have you ever tried to get a table at a popular restaurant on 14th Street or in Shaw on a normal Saturday night? This is going to be 100 times worse. But dont worry: Leave the last-minute planning to us. Here are four worry-free date itineraries for the weekend sometimes your love is too big for a single day that are guaranteed to impress your Valentine, whether youve been together for a few months or a few decades. When the American Film Institute created a list of the 100 greatest love stories of all time, there was only going to be one winner: Casablanca. E Street Cinema is showing the Bogart-and-Bergman classic at midnight Friday and Saturday, so this Bogie-inspired date could work either night. To Eat: To enter Marrakech is to step off of P Street NW and into North Africa. The walls are covered with colorful mosaics, beautiful tapestries hang from the ceiling and servers carry platters of lamb cooked in the clay pots known as tagines and pour mint tea from long-spouted silver pots. Thursday through Saturday, dinner comes with a show: Belly dancers take tours of the dining room, performing all the way. Marrakech, 2147 P St. NW. 202-775-1882. marrakechrestaurantdc.com. To Drink: Make your way to Quill, the classy cocktail lounge at the Jefferson Hotel. You might not call it a gin joint, but the bartenders can make you an excellent French 75 or, for Valentines Day, a variation called the Bonbon 75 with chocolate bitters, passion fruit and cocoa foam, in addition to the usual gin and champagne. (For romance, Im drawn to the herbal Comfortable Silence.) A pianist performs starting at 9 p.m., but please, do not get carried away and ask him to play it again, Sam. Quill at The Jefferson, 1200 16th St. NW. 202-448-2300. www.jeffersondc.com/dining-lounge/quill. To Do: Be warned: Midnight movies at the E Street Cinema can, and do, sell out in advance, so dont count on buying tickets at the door. Even once youre guaranteed admission, make sure you arrive a little early to get a good seat. Theres a bar downstairs to help pass the time. (And if you miss out on tickets or would just rather watch the film snuggled up at home Casablanca is available for streaming via Amazon Instant, iTunes, Google Play and more.) Friday and Saturday at 11:59 p.m. Landmarks E Street Cinema, 555 11th St. NW. (Entrance on E Street.) 202-452-7672. www.landmarktheatres.com. $9. Does your significant other gush about the romance of the Eiffel Tower or that amazing college semester he or she spent in Paris? Spare yourself the cost of a flight to France and a lock for the Pont des Arts with this trs romantic day out. To Do: Romanticism and Expressionism are two of the eras covered in the National Gallery of Arts large collection of French art. See works by Monet, Corot and Czanne on the gallerys free guided tour of its 18th and 19th century French paintings, which begins in the West Buildings rotunda Saturday at 3:30 p.m. If the weather cooperates, head out to the Sculpture Garden and take a selfie in front of Robert Indianas Amor, a French twist on the artists iconic Love sculpture. National Gallery of Art, Fourth Street and Constitution Avenue NW. 202-737-4215. www.nga.gov. Free. To Eat: Washington has no shortage of French restaurants, but theres no way youre getting into Le Diplomate or Central on Valentines Day. Instead, head for Bistrot Lepic, which is offering a three-course-plus-cheese menu for $70 on Valentines Day, if you want to impress. Or, keep things casual with moules frites, cassoulet and flowing wine at the boisterous Bistrot du Coin. Bistrot Lepic, 1736 Wisconsin Ave. NW. 202-333-0111. www.bistrotlepic.com. Bistrot de Coin, 1738 Connecticut Ave. NW. 202-234-6969. www.bistrotducoin.com. To Drink: A Rendezvous in Paris is the theme for a cocktail party at the Embassy of France, which begins at 9 p.m. and features an open bar, a buffet of French pastries, dancing to a big band and video art projections. Black tie or cocktail attire is requested. Saturday at 9 p.m. Embassy of France, 4101 Reservoir Rd. NW. www.museum.oas.org/valentine.html. $79. While this is a perfect date for the polyglot, who doesnt enjoy a steaming bowl of ramen in mid-February? To Do: The Freer and Sackler galleries are teaming up for a hands-on afternoon. Love in Every Language, part of the ongoing ImaginAsia series, includes a selection of images depicting love from the two museums collections, a lesson on folding an origami heart and the opportunity to make a Valentines Day card using more than a dozen prints, each of which says love in a different Asian language. (Note: This event is open to all ages, not just adults.) Saturday from noon to 4 p.m. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 1050 Independence Ave. SW. 202-633-4880. www.asia.si.edu. Free. To Eat: The best time to slurp the Sapporo-style noodles at Daikayas popular ramen shop is a weekend afternoon, when you have a great chance of grabbing one of the 40 seats. Choose from five different expertly made types of ramen the smoky vegetarian ramen may be the best and various toppings, including soft boiled egg and canned corn. Dont forget to order dumplings to share. Daikaya, 705 Sixth St. NW. 202-589-1600. www.daikaya.com. To Drink: Now that youve mastered Love in a dozen languages, try learning wine in a few others. The cozy and stylish Flight Wine Bar, just down the block from Daikaya, skips the same-old wines you see elsewhere for Hungarian ross, Serbian and Macedonian reds and Slovenian and Greek whites. Bartenders are generous with samples if you need a splash to decide. Flight doesnt open until 5 p.m., so you might want to linger over that ramen; the upside is that early arrivals can take advantage of happy hour deals, including $7 wines by the glass, until 7. Flight Wine Bar, 777 Sixth St. NW. 202-864-6445. www.flightdc.com. Saturday night is going to be amateur hour at most restaurants: large crowds, long lines and high-yet-unrealistic expectations. If youre really in love, you can wait 24 hours to start celebrating or you can keep things low-key on Saturday night, and then go big on Sunday afternoon. After all, Monday is a holiday. To Eat: The weekly #OffseasonSundays brunch in Smoke and Barrels basement is so low-key it feels like a friends private party, and thats the source of its charm. Theres great music; a lively, diverse crowd; a selection of barbecued meat and vegan dishes; and plenty of hair of the dog, ranging from small-batch bourbon to beer-mosas and other breakfast cocktails. Conceived by The Washington Posts Clinton Yates and his friends as a way to power through the drudgery of NFL-less Sunday afternoons, #OffseasonSundays adopts a different musical theme every week, such as Yacht Rock or Songs Featuring T-Pain. Sundays has been dubbed #BooJamz: Think of the slow jams you danced to at middle-school parties and that you called your favorite radio stations to dedicate to your boo back in the 90s. Youll inevitably find yourself singing along. Sunday from noon to 3 p.m. Smoke and Barrel, 2471 18th St. NW. 202-319-9353. www.smokeandbarreldc.com. To drink: Pool, darts and other bar games are perfect for a date. The pace is slow enough that you can chat while you play, but the games keep you just active enough that you dont feel as if youre sitting around and doing nothing. Bedrock Billiards is the king of Adams Morgans leisure entertainment, offering pool, darts, shuffleboard tables, foosball and a selection of board games ranging from Connect Four to Monopoly. Grab one of the 13 draft beers or a mixed drink and settle in for a game after punching in a few songs on the old-school jukebox. Opens Sunday at 4 p.m. Bedrock Billiards, 1841 Columbia Rd. NW. 202-667-7665. www.bedrockbilliards.com. Pool or shuffleboard $12 per hour for two players; board games and darts $2. To do: Romance hangs in the air at Busboys and Poets monthly Sunday Kind of Love poetry event. After one or two featured poets read their work, theres an open mike segment, which is your chance to tell the world or at least 14th and V streets NW how much you love your special someone. On the day of the event, tickets go on sale at midnight online and at 10 a.m. in the restaurant. Sundayfrom 5 to 7 p.m. Busboys and Poets, 2021 14th St. NW. 202-387-7638. www.busboysandpoets.com. $5.