Sam Smith had a huge night at the Grammy Awards on Sunday, picking up four awards, three of them in major categories: best new artist and song of the year and record of the year for his Tom Petty-echoing smash hit Stay With Me. [READ|Review: A night of old soul at the Grammys sure packs the blues] But it wasnt quite a clean sweep. Beck surprised everyone with an album of the year win for Morning Phase. And Kanye West tried to upstage his own infamous award show moment as he jokingly hopped on stage when Beck won out over Beyonc. Meanwhile,even if Kanye was having a blast, the rest of the show featured a surprising amount of very serious performances. Everything from Ushers tribute to Stevie Wonder to Katy Perrys song dedicated to a survivor of domestic violence led to an incredibly somber night. Case in point: Beyonc closed out the show with Take My Hand Precious Lord (introducing John Legend and Commons Glory) as a group of background performers held up their hands in a hands up, dont shoot image. A different side of Beyonc than we got last #GRAMMYs, but a beautiful one. #EWGrammys pic.twitter.com/2RqWHI0smG Entertainment Weekly (@EW) February 9, 2015 THE SHOW (in reverse chronological order) John Legend and Common have already won a Golden Globe for Glory, their contribution to the film Selma. Theyre up for an Oscar. So it made sense for Bey, in angelic white, to tag onto their performance with her own solemn offering, the gospel song Take My Hand Precious Lord. Behind her, a cast of male performers held up their hands in another clear reference to the hands up, dont shoot gesture. As the song abruptly wound down, Glory kicked off with Commons poetic delivery and Legends singing backed up by a choir, strings and images from Selma. .@Beyonce is ethereal at the #Grammys. pic.twitter.com/I2w4pEY4N5 MAKERS (@MAKERSwomen) February 9, 2015 Hard to follow Bey, but have to give it up for @common and @johnlegend. #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/CKFzl58sM9 InStyle (@InStyle) February 9, 2015 Stevie Wonder and Jamie Foxxpresented Sam Smith with Record of the Year for his smash hit, Stay With Me. Smith pulled an Adele, who won six grammys in 2012, thanking the ex who inspired the record for breaking [his] heart cause it got [him] four Grammys. Beck, after winning two Grammys, including Album of the year for Morning Phase, offered the meditative Heart Is a Drum in a performance with Coldplays Chris Martin. Sam Smith wins Best Song of the Year for Stay With Me. Its the third award the singer has won tonight. He beat outKevin Kadish & Meghan Trainor for All About That Bass, Sia Furler & Jesse Shatkin for Chandelier, Max Martin, Shellback & Taylor Swift for Shake It Off, Andrew Hozier-Byrne for Take Me To Church. Sia belted out Chandelier with her face obscured as expected, but what the Internet didnt expect was actress Kristen Wiig to don the infamous blond wig, dancing in a nude bodysuit with Sias official sidekick, 12-year-old Maddie Ziegler. In a telecast full of musicians attempting performance art, Wiigs performance qualified as the real deal. Kristen Wiig's cameo may just have won the #Grammys pic.twitter.com/exs0pHcD5X TheWrap (@TheWrap) February 9, 2015 Who is Sia? This Australian songwriter has co-written songs for the likes of Beyonc and Rihanna (and has achieved musical fame in the past with songs like Breathe Me), but she hit No. 1 on the American albums chart this summer with her latest album, 1,000 Forms of Fear. Shes a rising star, but she likes to conceal her face from cameras. Why is she here? Her hit single Chandelier is nominated for four trophies: record of the year, song of the year, best pop solo performance and best music video. Song you might recognize: Chandelier Prince presented the Grammy for Album of the Year to Becks Morning Phase. Beck accepted the award with a look of surprise on his face. In his speech, he thanked everyone involved with the production of the record, including his kids who allowed him to keep them awake while he was recording. And yep, Kanye almost fake-jumped on stage but appeared to be laughing at the whole thing. So was Kim Kardashian. KANYE THA GOD. https://t.co/8x42pDTmWT Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 9, 2015 Jay Zs reaction: Twenty-time Latin Grammy winner Juanes takes the stage for his new song Juntos and it is ridiculously catchy. Some subtle synergy as hes introduced by CWs Jane the Virgin star Gina Rodriguez CBS co-owns the CW. Sam Smith takes the stage with a swagger of a man whos won allll the Grammys and will likely win a couple more tonight. He duets with Mary J. Blige on his monster hit Stay With Me as a dozen Ikea lamps glitter in the background. Finally, the highly-hyped combo of the night: Rihanna, Kanye West and Paul McCartney teaming up for Rihannas new single FourFiveSeconds. Its pretty much exactly the same as the music video released last week except more banter between Kanye and McCartney. The cameras smartly cut to Kanyes wife Kim Kardashian (loving it) and Kanyes nemesis Taylor Swift who was up on her feet cheering, so sadly, there was no drama. Nashville rock star Eric Church (who lost to Miranda Lambert for best country album) went with Give Me Back My Hometown while footage of riots played on the video screens. People on Twitter appeared confused about why there was such a serious scene in the background while Churchs lyrics included a reference to Pizza Hut. The country portion of the evening continued with best new artist nominee Brandy Clark and Dwight Yoakam. Clark started off with an acoustic performance of her (surprise!) saddest song, Hold My Hand. Who is Brandy Clark? In addition to penning songs for country singers Miranda Lambert and Kacey Musgraves, this Nashville songwriter released her own excellent solo debut, 12 Stories, back in 2013. Many of her fans consider her criminally underrated but here she is at the Grammys. Why is she here? Clark is up for best new artist, but shes inarguably the longest long shot in the bunch. 12 Stories is also up for best country album. Song you might recognize: Stripes Who is Eric Church? This country singer has been putting in work from behind his trademark aviator shades for more than a decade, but Church finally achieved leading-man status in Nashville last year for his adventurous and decorated album, The Outsiders. Why is he here? Hes nominated for four country Grammys including best country album. Song you might recognize: Talladega You know things are dismal when Usher doesnt dance accompanied by a harp and piano, he crooned If Its Magic as a tribute to Stevie Wonder. Wonder joined him a few minutes in, but even the two superstars on stage wasnt enough to save the gloomy performance. Seriously, Usher, youre in a Honey Nut Cheerios commercial hanging out with an animated bee you dont need to take yourself THAT seriously. Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett continued their shmoozy, kissy lounge-act revival which won them a Grammy tonight by jamming to Irving Berlins Cheek to Cheek. The two picked up the pace only slightly but their best-bud act makes it hard not to ask: What is the deal with these two? And also, what happened to the Gaga we used to know the one who wore meat, and forgets to wear bottoms? President Obama appeared on the broadcast to talk about the new Its On Us initiative to end sexual assault on college campuses. Domestic abuse survivor Brooke Axtell introduced Katy Perrys performance of By the Grace of God by sharing her own story of an abusive relationship. Authentic love does not silence, shame or abuse, she said. Cut to: A somber Perry, dressed all in white with a cape, performing her post-divorce anthem, which she wrote in her lowest moments after splitting with ex-husband Russell Brand. And the depressing mood of the Grammys got even gloomier. Finally, a performance where everyone collectively looks at each other and goes Huh? Pharrell kicks off his performance of Happy by wandering on stage dressed as a bellhop with a weird hat and saying things like Im a hot air balloon that could go to space. Then, tons of dancers rush the stage and Lang Lang starts playing the piano and theres a choir singing and dancing in the aisles. Its QUITE odd and honestly, really welcome during such a sleepy show. Media outlets like Billboard and the Huffington Post later reported that the dancers were clad in hoodies as a reference to Trayvon Martin and that they threw their hands up during the performance as in Hands up, dont shoot using a gesture common among protesters after the killing of Mike Brown in Ferguson. Yes, everyone is making the Grand Budapest Hotel joke about Pharrells bellhop look. It would appear @Pharrell is auditioning for "The Grand Budapest Hotel 2." #GRAMMYs Good Morning America (@GMA) February 9, 2015 Is this Pharrell remixed with Grand Budapest Hotel? Lang Whitaker (@langwhitaker) February 9, 2015 Pharrell is channeling Grand Budapest Hotel and were not sure if this is the Grammys or Oscars anymore. pic.twitter.com/0rpvR9Cbhq Mashable (@mashable) February 9, 2015 We LOVED @Pharrell in The Grand Budapest Hotel! pic.twitter.com/pMH0n6QJVD f.y.e. (@officialfye) February 9, 2015 The Grammy for Best Country Album goes to Miranda Lambert for Platinum. She seems genuinely excited about winning an award! At all the country music award shows, she seems bored all the timesimply because she wins every. single. one. The random duets continue with Hozier starting with his smash Take Me to Church and seguing into I Put a Spell on You with Annie Lennox. On the red carpet earlier tonight, Lennox seemed very unimpressed but she rocked out with more passion than just about any performer so far. Who is Hozier?Andrew Hozier-Byrne is a 24-year-old singer-songwriter from Ireland whose become best known for his brooding piano ballad, Take Me To Church. His eponymous debut album was released in September, but his follow-up singles have not been as successful. Perhaps hes the new Gotye? Why is he here?Take Me To Church is nominated for song of the year. Song you might recognize:Take Me To Church Hey, Grammys, why so glum? At this point in the slow show, it was hard to open our eyes long enough to watch Adam Levine and Gwen Stefani deliver their emotional duet My Heart is Open (written by Sia). Ed Sheeran keeps the mellow mood of the night going with his new song Thinking Out Loud. TWIST: John Mayer, famously an ex-boyfriend of Taylor Swifts, is on background vocals and guitar. Ed Sheeran and Taylor Swift are best friends. Will we see headlines tomorrow about Ed Sheerans betrayal? Probably. Meanwhile, Questlove is playing the drums and Jeff Lynnes ELO is involved. Who is Ed Sheeran?This very-earnest British troubadour isnt a new artist, but his sophomore album X (pronounced Multiply) has taken his career to even higher heights. Having collaborated with Taylor Swift and the juggernaut boy band One Direction, hes recognized as pop musics new nice guy. Why is he here?X is up for the big one, album of the year, and best pop vocal album, too. And I See Fire is nominated for one of the evenings more arcane awards, best song written for visual media. Song you might recognize:Thinking Out Loud Beyonc and Jay-Z snag the Grammy for Best R&B Performance for Drunk in Love. Beyonce was sure to thank her fans, the BeyHive, in her acceptance speech. The Grammy for Best Rock Album goes to Beck for Morning Phase, beating out Ryan Adams, The Black Keys, Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers and U2. Josh Duhamel trips up the steps: Madonna continued her matador look with a performance of her newest single (the video of which she released on SnapChat earlier this week), Living for Love, accompanied by half-naked men wearing bull horns. She strutted around on a stage bathed in red before being hooked onto a harness and being pulled into the ceiling. Obviously. Style editor Amy Argetsinger made a particularly apt observation of Madonnas Mae West-like tendencies: Another amazing Madonna performance! pic.twitter.com/gNXrNecQrv Amy Argetsinger (@AmyArgetsinger) February 9, 2015 Kanye West returned to the Grammys stage for the first time in six years to play a rendition of the auto-tuned emo-rap Only One. His performance largely mirrored those from his 2013 Yeezus tour him standing alone, largely in the dark, with just a spotlight. The Grammy for Best Pop Vocal Album goes to Sam Smith for In the Lonely Hour, who accepts his second award of the night dressed in a vibrant red suit. Pharrell with a little side eye for Taylor Swift Miranda Lambert, award show favorite AND a nominee for best country album, goes with a wind machine, smoke and fireworks for her sassy single Little Red Wagon. And is the first singer to get lyrics bleeped by some very nervous CBS censors. The Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance goes to Pharrell Williams for his upbeat single, Happy. He promised that he wouldnt make his acceptance speech awkward and long because he was prepared for one of the other great artists nominated for the award to snag the win. He then proceeded to moonwalk off of the stage while wearing his signature dress shorts. Tom Jones and Jessie J (U.K. judges on The Voice) break into song with Youve Lost That Lovin Feeling. Chrissy Teigen and John Legend and Haim rock out in the audience, while some on Twitter are not impressed. Tom Jones and Jessie J on a really awkward tinder date, but trying to make it work. jay smooth (@jsmooth995) February 9, 2015 Who is Jessie J?The British singer-songwriter has been relentlessly pursuing a spot on American pops A-list for the past four years. Her highest charting song is Bang Bang, a collaboration with Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj that was released last summer. Why is she here?Despite her mysterious omnipresence at awards shows, she was only up for one Grammy tonight: best pop duo/group performance for Bang Bang. (She lost to A Great Big World and Christina Aguileras Say Something.) Song you might recognize:Bang Bang No sign of tween sensation Ariana Grande shes all grown up with a power ballad, Just a Little Bit of Your Heart, and even forgoes her usual performance uniform of a miniskirt and thigh-high boots. Her signature high ponytail, however, was still rightfully in place. Who is Ariana Grande?Once the star of the Nickelodeon series Victorious, Grandes 2014 sophomore album My Everything has made the 21-year-old a legitimate pop star. It should also be noted that she released the most charming Christmas song of 2014, Santa Tell Me. Why is she here?Grande is nominated for best pop vocal album and best pop duo/group performance for Bang Bang, her single with Jessie J and Nicki Minaj. Song you might recognize:Problem Taylor Swift presents the Grammy for Best New Artist to British singer Sam Smith, who finished his acceptance speech with a jubilant I won a GRAMMY! Who is Sam Smith?Hes a 22-year-old British soul singer whose gospel-tinted hit, Stay With Me, has reached a rarefied state of cultural ubiquity. If you think Stay With Me sounds a little bit like Tom Pettys I Wont Back Down, so do Smith and Petty. Smith recently awarded Petty songwriting credit to Stay With me in a reportedly amicable out of court settlement. Why is he here?All bets are on Smith to be the big winner at this years Grammys. He leads the nominations alongside Pharrell and Beyonce with six, and hes the only artist nominated in all four of the top categories. Song you might recognize:Stay With Me AC/DC kicks off the show with a new song that has rock in the titleand sounds like Highway to Hell. Then, they actually play the 1979 classic Highway to Hell in an unintentional weird, power-ballad way, and the audience (hello, Katy Perry!) is VERY excited to sing along. Meanwhile, Twitter mocks CBS for shamelessly catering to the older demographic. Now airing on CBS: NCIS: AC/DC! Bruce Fretts (@brucefretts) February 9, 2015 Twitter shows that AC/DC used a teleprompter for their own song: AC/DC is using a TelePrompTer for its own song. #Grammys pic.twitter.com/thIwynWBFW Matthew Belloni (@THRMattBelloni) February 9, 2015 NEWS The only person Sam Smith didnt thank at the Grammys deserves a lot of credit The specter of Tom Petty seemed to haunt the telecast: Every time Smith was mentioned as a nominee, the chorus of Stay With Me came tumbling out of the television. And its that songs chorus that has become problematic for Smith. J. Freedom du Lac (Read More) The story behind Beyonces dazzling, but controversial, performance of Take My Hand, Precious Lord For viewers unaware of any controversy, Beyonc, ethereal and clearly moved by the moment, delivered the kind of flawless rendition that audiences have come to expect from her. But since it was reported that Ledisi would not be singing the hymn, Beyoncs critics have been waiting in the wings, pretty much ready to pounce. Some songs should just be performed by a Saaanger not just a singer,L. Joy Williams wrote. Abby Phillip (Read More) Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett: Whats the deal? Generally, 28-year-old pop stars dont hang out with 88-year-old jazz standard singers, but these two are the exception. Ever since they teamed up for a performance of The Lady Is a Tramp on Bennetts duets album in 2011, the two have become close pals and collaborators, frequently hanging out and performing together. Its been quite a very productive partnership: Gaga and Bennett got together last year to record pop album Cheek to Cheek, where they covered famous tunes by everyone from Cole Porter to Duke Ellington. It hit No. 1 on Billboard charts last fall and on Sunday night, won the Grammy for best traditional pop vocal album. Emily Yahr(Read More) Hey, Grammys, why so glum? It was slow. So slow. Time to wake up from your naps and re-cap, people: Ariana Grande kicked off this particularly emo Grammys with a heart-wrenching did we mention slow? rendition of her Just a Little Bit of Your Heart. And then Kanye West returned to the Grammys stage to perform for the first time in six years and delivered the auto-tuned emo-rap Only One, which he performed in the dark, with just a single light shining up from the stage. Ed Sheeran with John Mayer and Questlove got all bromantic with Thinking Out Loud, and by that point, it was hard to open your eyes long enough to watch Adam Levine and Gwen Stefani deliver their emotional duet, My Heart is Open (written by Sia). We never thought wed say it, but thank goodness for ELO. If it was part of some grand strategy to make the three-hour-plus ceremony feel like a full seven-hour affair, well, Grammys, you won. Lavanya Ramanathan(Read More) Sam Smith wins important best new artist Grammy British blue-eyed soul singer Sam Smith, whose song Stay became one of the most ubiquitous coffee-house tracks of 2014, won the first award of the night, the important best new artist award. The award has, in past years, gone to the likes of The Beatles, Sheryl Crow, Christina Aguilera and Amy Winehouse. Post pop music critic Chris Richards predicted several wins tonight for Smith, 22, whose crooning style isnt that much of a stretch from similar soul singers like Winehouse and Adele, who have fared well at the Grammys. Smith was nominated for a total of six awards. Lavanya Ramanathan(Read More) Iggy Azalea did not win the Grammy for best rap album. But Eminem did. After the entire Internet offered think pieces about what it would mean if the white, Australian rapper Iggy Azalea took home the award for best rap album for last years The New Classic, she quietly lost the honor while other stars were still preening on the red carpet. Instead, the award went to another white rapper, Eminem, for his The Marshall Mathers LP2. Eminem, strangely, hasnt stirred up quite the same amount of rage, and it may well be because he predates the think piece. In all, Eminem has picked up the award six times in the 20 years the best rap album award has existed. Lavanya Ramanathan(Read More) RED CARPET Wiz Khalifa turns up on the carpet sans Amber Rose for the first time we can remember. (The pair split last fall when Rose, a model who had previously dated Kanye West, abruptly filed for divorce.) Wiz, nominated for two awards, instead brought his mom and his son, the latter outfitted for the occasion in a slick green velvet suit. After losing the best rap album award, Iggy Azalea turns her attention to the best new artist category, and we turn our attention to the weird milkmaid braid wrapped around her head, surely, slowly cutting off her circulation. She wore it with an Armani Prive dress made for her in her choice of colors: royal blue. Who wore it better? #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/OSCRThjnSg First We Feast (@firstwefeast) February 9, 2015 Kim Kardashian stepped onto the carpet in a gold Jean Paul Gaultier robe-dress with frilled sleeves that husband Kanye West called beautiful. This is @KimKardashian at the #GRAMMYs but also how we imagine she looks lounging around post-bath at home most days. pic.twitter.com/R0jcilnZU1 People StyleWatch (@StyleWatchMag) February 9, 2015 ALERT, ALERT: Kanye is smiling. I just get bored with things really easily and try to find something that excites me, he tells Seacrest about his musical choices. Kanye also confirms hes the executive producer of Rihannas album, but he CANT say when the release date is. Kim also explains the story behind the famous Waffle House double date with John Legend and Chrissy Teigen: They were really hungry and wanted some waffles. Kanye explains hes not smiling because thats how he expresses hes happy its just his thing! Not smiling makes me smile, he says. Double date at the Waffle House pic.twitter.com/c29b27HrRt Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) February 1, 2015 Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga are best friends AND they just won a Grammy together for traditional pop vocal album. We get along great, were both Italian Americans, Bennett tells Seacrest. Shes a great artist. Taylor Swift, multiple nominee who is NOT, we repeat, NOT performing tonight, is in a green Ellie Saab gown. She name drops some of her friends who won Grammys in the pre-telecast: Hayley Williams from Paramore, Kendrick Lamar, Beyonce, Jay Z. You know, just the regular crew. She also tells Seacrest shes pleased that everyone bought into her wild choice to make a pop album because it was such a risk. American Idol pals Keith Urban (nominated for best country song for Cop Car) and Seacrest trade compliments on their suits and talk about, well, American Idol. Unfortunately, no one really cares this season. Melissa Rivers and her 14-year-old son, Cooper, are on the red carpet showing Giuliana the official envelope that shows off Joans win for Diary of a Mad Diva. Its a difficult moment, its a little bittersweet, Melissa said. But its wonderful how loved she was. Katy Perry arrives, purple hair and all, to talk about her Super Bowl performance. (Shes wearing Zuhair Murad, fresh from the runway in France, for the record.) She tells Seacrest they rehearsed for a month and practiced the show 40 times before she performed it live. (So what was the deal with Left Shark not knowing the moves?) Also: Shes a bit sleep-deprived because she stayed up late last night watching episodes of Transparent. Nicki Minaj, who delays talking to Seacrest so she can say hi to Katy Perry. I love Katy, I love her breasts, Minaj enthuses. Host LL Cool J just finished dress rehearsal inside and teases Madonna and Sias performances. For the record, Sias hair looks like this tonight: Sia has arrived at the Grammys with her mini muse. pic.twitter.com/pSpDZMVB6w Mashable (@mashable) February 9, 2015 Meghan Trainor brings her dad to the red carpet, and theyre both thrilled to be here. Trainor confirms that she was first alerted about her multiple nominations by her co-writer, not her parents her dad protests that she had plenty of people texting her, and figured they would talk later. The president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences confirmed what wed all feared: Theres going to be more music tonight than we can keep our eyes open for. Ed Sheeran, the breakout singer who somehow still manages to seem like he thought he was playing a coffeehouse gig, talked about one of the big awards hes up for, album of the year. I want it to be over, he told Seacrest. News from the pre-telecast: Joan Rivers won a posthumous Grammy for best spoken word album for her Diary of a Mad Diva audiobook. Why is Katharine McPhee at the Grammys? Well, shes the star of a CBS show (Scorpion), of course it has nothing to do with music. She reunites with American Idol host Ryan Seacrest and says literally nothing interesting. "I usually wear shorts. That's just like my thing." @Pharrell #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/Y3xGZ1wb5f Cosmopolitan (@Cosmopolitan) February 8, 2015 A hat-less Pharrell, in his signature shorts, has already won two Grammy Awards so far tonight. Whats he doing in 2015? Music, he tells Seacrest. He also talks about a learning experience and some kind of up-and-down carousel ride hes been on, maybe alluding to the fact that Marvin Gayes estate is suing for his hit Robin Thicke song Blurred Lines. Ariana Grande showed up in a one-shoulder white Versace gown, with her usual high pony. She did have one excellent accessory: bae Big Sean, clad in black Saint Laurent. Hes the rapper, but turns out Grande might also have some skills in that department. Im going to do a lot of rapping, she told Seacrest, joking. We think. Charli XCX shows up wearing a Moschino white tuxedo with a pink bowtie. Uh, you really stepped out of the box tonight, says an almost speechless Giuliana. I wanted to do something 80s and fabulous, Charli explains. The red carpet kicked off as usual E! co-hosts Ryan Seacrest and Giuliana Rancic kill time before the big names show up by listing everything theyre wearing. Ryan Seacrest is wearing is own clothing line, naturally. Sam Smith, with a field-leading six nominations, stops by first and confirms to Seacrest that he used to record the E! red carpet at home before he was famous. E! is very excited about this. Then theres a joke about Smith flirting with Seacrest, but we were too distracted by his fancy tuxedo to pay attention. Gwen Stefani is wearing Atelier Versace jumpsuit that Seacrest mistakes from a Gwen Stefani original. High compliment! Shes performing with fellow Voice coach Adam Levine, and she cant tell Seacrest anything about the performance except that it feels like its in a dream. That is nonsense, but intriguing. I never thought I would be doing this again, she tells Seacrest about performing on stage. Another fun fact: Stefanis kids think Pharrell (another Voice coach) is her boyfriend even though shes, uh, married to their dad, Gavin Rossdale. Oneout of the three sisters in Haim, known these days for taking killer Instagram photos with Taylor Swift, took a cue from Lordes lauded Golden Globes look and wore basic pantsuits. So, who is Haim?These three sisters from Los Angeles are one of the most critically beloved new rock bands of recent years. Theyve been compared to 80s-era Fleetwood Mac and have been photographed hanging out at Stevie Nickss house. Why are they here?Theyre up for one Grammy, but its a big one: best new artist. Song you might recognize:Forever If only Madonna had followed Haims lead. Instead, in Givenchy, the once-adored queen of shock looked like a cross between an an extra from Moulin Rouge and a toreador. Nas seemed slightly embarrassed to be standing next to her. What does Madonna want us to talk about after her performance tonight? Bullfighting, love, romance, heartbreak. The usual. Nick Jonas looked better suited for the traditionally funky Grammys than Sam Smith, wearing fashion-forward white sneakers with his slim suit, and skipping the bowtie. Haim stops by to talk to Giuliana. They tell Giuliana about this one time when an (unnamed) famous woman told them they would never succeed but they showed her, because they were on SNL last year! WINNERS 1. Record of the Year Stay With Me (Darkchild Version) Sam Smith Steve Fitzmaurice, Rodney Jerkins & Jimmy Napes, producers; Steve Fitzmaurice, Jimmy Napes & Steve Price, engineers/mixers; Tom Coyne, mastering engineer Label: Capitol Records; Publishers: Sony/ATV Songs LLC obo Naughty Worlds Ltd./Universal-Polygram Int. Tunes, Inc. obo Salli Isaak Songs, Ltd./Universal Polygram Int. Tunes, Inc. obo Method Paperwork 2. Album of the Year Morning Phase Beck Beck Hansen, producer; Tom Elmhirst, David Greenbaum, Florian Lagatta, Cole Marsden Greif-Neill, Robbie Nelson, Darrell Thorp, Cassidy Turbin & Joe Visciano, engineers/mixers; Bob Ludwig, mastering engineer Label: Capitol Records 3. Song of the Year Stay With Me (Darkchild Version) James Napier, William Phillips & Sam Smith, songwriters (Sam Smith) Label: Capitol Records; Publishers: Sony/ATV Songs LLC obo Naughty Words Ltd./Universal-Polygram Int. Tunes, Inc. obo Method Paperwork 4. Best New Artist Sam Smith Label: Capitol Records 5. Best Pop Solo Performance Pharrell Williams Label: Columbia Records 6. Best Pop Duo/Group Performance Say Something A Great Big World with Christina Aguilera Track from: Is There Anybody Out There? Label: Epic Records 7. Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album Cheek to Cheek Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga Label: Streamline/Columbia/RPM/Interscope 8. Best Pop Vocal Album In The Lonely Hour Sam Smith Label: Capitol Records 9. Best Dance Recording Clean Bandit and Jess Glynne Grace Chatto & Jack Patterson, producers; Wez Clarke & Jack Patterson, mixers Track from: New Eyes Label: Big Beat/Atlantic 10. Best Dance/Electronic Album Syro| Aphex Twin Label: Warp Records 11. Best Contemporary Instrumental Album Bass and Mandolin Label: Nonesuch 12. Best Rock Performance Lazaretto Jack White Track from: Lazaretto Label: Third Man Records/Columbia Records 13. Best Metal Performance The Last In Line Tenacious D Track from: Ronnie James Dio This Is Your Life Label: Rhino 14. Best Rock Song Aint It Fun Track from: Paramore Label: Fueled By Ramen; Publishers: WB Music Corp./But Father, I Just Want To Sing/FBR Music And Hunterboro Music/WB Music Corp/Justins Polite Music 15. Best Rock Album Morning Phase Beck Label: Capitol Records 16. Best Alternative Music Album St. Vincent Label: Loma Vista Recordings / Republic 17. Best R&B Performance Drunk In Love Beyonc Featuring Jay Z Track from: Beyonc Label: Columbia Records 18. Best Traditional R&B Performance Jesus Children Robert Glasper Experiment Featuring Lalah Hathaway & Malcolm-Jamal Warner Track from: Black Radio 2 Label: Blue Note Records 19. Best R&B Song Drunk In Love Shawn Carter, Rasool Diaz, Noel Fisher, Jerome Harmon, Beyonc Knowles, Timothy Mosely, Andre Eric Proctor & Brian Soko, songwriters (Beyonc Featuring Jay Z Track from: Beyonc Label: Columbia Records; Publishers: EMI Blackwood Music, Inc. obo Itself and If You Need Me Dont Leave Me/WB Music Corp./Oakland 13 Music/Carter Boys Music/Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corp./The Order Music/VB Rising Music Publishing/ole/Jerome Harmon Publishing 20. Best Urban Contemporary Album Girl Pharrell Williams Label: Columbia Records 21. Best R&B Album Love, Marriage & Divorce Toni Braxton & Babyface Label: Def Jam Recordings 22. Best Rap Performance i Kendrick Lamar Label: Top Dawg Entertainment/Interscope Records The Monster Eminem Featuring Rihanna Track from: The Marshall Mathers LP2 Label: Aftermath 23. Best Rap/Sung Collaboration The Monster Eminem Featuring Rihanna Track from: The Marshall Mathers LP2 Label: Aftermath 24. Best Rap Song i K. Duckworth & C. Smith, songwriters (Kendrick Lamar) Label: Top Dawg Entertainment/Interscope Records 25. Best Rap Album The Marshall Mathers LP2 Eminem Label: Aftermath 26. Best Country Solo Performance Something in the Water Carrie Underwood Label: Sony Nashville 27. Best Country Duo/Group Performance Gentle On My Mind The Band Perry Glen Campbell & Julian Raymond, songwriters (Glen Campbell) Track from: Glen Campbell, Ill Be Me Soundtrack Label: Big Machine Records 28. Best Country Song Im Not Gonna Miss You Glen Campbell & Julian Raymond, songwriters (Glen Campbell) Track from: Glen Campbell, Ill Be Me Soundtrack Label: Big Machine Records 29. Best Country Album Platinum Miranda Lambert Label: RCA Nashville 30. Best New Age Album Winds of Samsara Winds Of Samsara Ricky Kej & Wouter Kellerman Label: Listen 2 Africa 31. Best Improvised Jazz Solo Fingerprints Chick Corea, soloist Track from: Trilogy (Chick Corea Trio) Label: Concord Jazz 32. Best Jazz Vocal Album Beautiful Life Dianne Reeves Label: Concord Records 33. Best Jazz Instrumental Album Trilogy Chick Corea Trio Label: Concord Jazz 34. Best Large Jazz Ensemble Album Life In The Bubble Gordon Goodwins Big Phat Band Label: Telarc International 35. Best Latin Jazz Album The Offense Of The Drum Arturo OFarrill & The Afro Latin Jazz Orchestra Label: Motema 36. Best Gospel Performance/Song No Greater Love Smokie Norful 37. Best Contemporary Christian Music Performance/Song Messengers Lecrae Featuring For King & Country 38. Best Gospel Album Help Erica Campbell Label: EOne/My Block 39. Best Contemporary Christian Music Album Run Wild. Live Free. Love Strong. For King & Country Label: Fervent/Word/Curb 40. Best Roots Gospel Album Shine For All The People Mike Farris Label: Compass Records 41. Best Latin Pop Album Tangos Rubn Blades Label: Sunnyside Records 42. Best Latin Rock, Urban or Alternative Album Multiviral Calle 13 Label: Sony Music Latin 43. Best Regional Mexican Music Album (Including Tejano) Mano A Mano Tangos A La Manera De Vicente Fernndez Vicente Fernndez Label: Sony Music Latin 44. Best Tropical Latin Album Ms + Corazn Profundo Carlos Vives Label: Sony Music Latin 45. Best American Roots Performance A Feathers Not A Bird Rosanne Cash Track from: The River & The Thread Label: Blue Note Records 46. Best American Roots Song Rosanne Cash & John Leventhal, songwriters (Rosanne Cash) Track from: The River & The Thread Label: Blue Note Records; Publishers: Chelcait Music admin. by Measurable Music LLC, a Notable Music Co./Lev-A-Tunes 47. Best Americana Album The River & The Thread Rosanne Cash Label: Blue Note Records 48. Best Bluegrass Album The Earls Of Leicester The Earls Of Leicester Label: Rounder 49. Best Blues Album Step Back Johnny Winter Label: Megaforce Records 50. Best Folk Album Remedy Old Crow Medicine Show Label: ATO Records 51. Best Regional Roots Music Album The Legacy Jo-El Sonnier Label: Takau Records 52. Best Reggae Album Fly Rasta Ziggy Marley Label: Tuff Gong Worldwide 53. Best World Music Album Eve Angelique Kidjo Label: 429 Records 54. Best Childrens Album I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up For Education And Changed The World (Malala Yousafzai) Neela Vaswani Label: Hachette Audio 55. Best Spoken Word Album (Includes Poetry, Audio Books & Storytelling) Diary Of A Mad Diva Joan Rivers Label: Penguin Audio 56. Best Comedy Album Mandatory Fun Weird Al Yankovic Label: RCA Records 57. Best Musical Theater Album Beautiful: The Carole King Musical Jessie Mueller, principal soloist; Jason Howland, Steve Sidwell & Billy Jay Stein, producers (Carole King, composer & lyricist) (Original Broadway Cast) Label: Ghostlight/Razor & Tie 58. Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media Frozen Kristen Anderson-Lopez, Robert Lopez, Tom MacDougall & Chris Montan, compilation producers Label: Walt Disney Records 59. Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media The Grand Budapest Hotel Alexandre Desplat, composer Label: Abkco Music & Records 60. Best Song Written for Visual Media Let It Go Kristen Anderson-Lopez & Robert Lopez, songwriters (Idina Menzel) Track from: Frozen Label: Walt Disney Records; Publisher: Wonderland Music Company, Inc. 61. Best Instrumental Composition The Book Thief John Williams, composer (John Williams) Track from: The Book Thief Original Motion Picture Soundtrack Label: Sony Classical, Fox Music; Publisher: Fox Film Music Corp. 62. Best Arrangement, Instrumental or A Capella Daft Punk Ben Bram, Mitch Grassi, Scott Hoying, Avi Kaplan, Kirstin Maldonado & Kevin Olusola, arrangers (Pentatonix) Track from: PTX, Vol. 2 Label: RCA Records 63. Best Arrangement, Instruments and Vocals New York Tendaberry Billy Childs, arranger (Billy Childs Featuring Rene Fleming & Yo-Yo Ma) Track from: Map To The Treasure: Reimagining Laura Nyro Label: Masterworks 64. Best Recording Package Lightning Bolt Jeff Ament, Don Pendleton, Joe Spix & Jerome Turner, art directors (Pearl Jam) Label: Republic Records 65. Best Boxed or Special Limited Edition Package The Rise & Fall Of Paramount Records, Volume One (1917-27) Susan Archie, Dean Blackwood & Jack White, art directors (Various Artists) Label: Third Man Records/ Revenant Records 66. Best Album Notes Offering: Live At Temple University Ashley Kahn, album notes writer (John Coltrane) Label: Resonance/Impulse] 67. Best Historical Album The Garden Spot Programs, 1950 Colin Escott & Cheryl Pawelski, compilation producers; Michael Graves, mastering engineer (Hank Williams) Label: Omnivore Recordings 68. Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical Morning Phase Tom Elmhirst, David Greenbaum, Florian Lagatta, Cole Marsden Greif-Neill, Robbie Nelson, Darrell Thorp, Cassidy Turbin & Joe Visciano, engineers; Bob Ludwig, mastering engineer (Beck) Label: Capitol Records 69. Producer of the Year, Non-Classical Max Martin Bang Bang (Jessie J, Ariana Grande & Nicki Minaj) (S) Break Free (Ariana Grande Featuring Zedd) (S) Dark Horse (Katy Perry Featuring Juicy J) (S) Problem (Ariana Grande Featuring Iggy Azalea) (S) Shake It Off (Taylor Swift) (S) Unconditionally (Katy Perry) (S) 70. Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical All Of Me (Tiestos Birthday Treatment Remix) Tijs Michiel Verwest, remixer (John Legend) Label: Columbia Records 71. Best Surround Sound Album Beyonc Elliot Scheiner, surround mix engineer; Bob Ludwig, surround mastering engineer;Beyonc Knowles, surround producer (Beyonc) Label: Columbia Records 72. Best Engineered Album, Classical Vaughan Williams: Dona Nobis Pacem; Symphony No. 4; The Lark Ascending Michael Bishop, engineer; Michael Bishop, mastering engineer (Robert Spano, Norman Mackenzie, Atlanta Symphony Orchestra & Chorus) Label: ASO Media 73. Producer of the Year, Classical Judith Sherman Beethoven: Cello & Piano Complete (Fischer Duo) Brahms By Heart (Chiara String Quartet) Composing America (Lark Quartet) Divergence (Plattform K + K Vienna) The Good Song (Thomas Meglioranza) Mozart & Brahms: Clarinet Quintets (Anthony McGill & Pacifica Quartet) Snapshot (American Brass Quintet) Two X Four (Jaime Laredo, Jennifer Koh, Vinay Parameswaran & Curtis 20/21 Ensemble) Wagner Without Words (Ll_r Williams) 74. Best Orchestral Performance Adams, John: City Noir David Robertson, conductor (St. Louis Symphony) Label: Nonesuch 75. Best Opera Recording Charpentier: La Descente DOrphe Aux Enfers Paul ODette & Stephen Stubbs, conductors; Aaron Sheehan; Renate Wolter-Seevers, producer (Boston Early Music Festival Chamber Ensemble; Boston Early Music Festival Vocal Ensemble) Label: CPO 76. Best Choral Performance The Sacred Spirit Of Russia Craig Hella Johnson, conductor (Conspirare) Label: Harmonia Mundi 77. Best Chamber Music/Small Ensemble Performance In 27 Pieces The Hilary Hahn Encores Hilary Hahn & Cory Smythe Label: Deutsche Grammophon 78. Best Classical Instrumental Solo Play Jason Vieaux Label: Azica Records 79. Best Classical Solo Vocal Album Douce France Anne Sofie Von Otter; Bengt Forsberg, accompanist (Carl Bagge, Margareta Bengston, Mats Bergstrm, Per Ekdahl, Bengan Janson, Olle Linder & Antoine Tamestit) Label: Nave 80. Best Classical Compendium Partch: Plectra & Percussion Dances Partch; John Schneider, producer Label: Bridge Records, Inc. 81. Best Contemporary Classical Composition Adams, John Luther: Become Ocean John Luther Adams, composer (Ludovic Morlot & Seattle Symphony) Label: Cantaloupe Music 82. Best Music Video Happy Pharrell Williams We Are From LA, video director; Kathleen Heffernan, Solal Micenmacher, Jett Steiger, video producers Label: Columbia Records 83. Best Music Film 20 Feet From Stardom Darlene Love, Merry Clayton, Lisa Fischer & Judith Hill Morgan Neville, video director; Gil Friesen & Caitrin Rogers, video producers Label: Anchor Bay RELATED: White echoes: Rap, race and Iggy Azalea Podcast:The familiar confusion with the Grammys Sia is rejecting fame. Which has made her more famous than ever. Grammy nominations: Beyonc, Sam Smith, Taylor Swift, Iggy Azalea and more