Fine, Jon. Leave. But the desk stays. Jon Stewart announced his departure from The Daily Show after 16 years on Tuesday night. Devastated by this news, I went out into the streets and rampaged blindly for several hours, overturning chairs and uprooting street lamps. First Colbert! I bellowed. Now this! Yes, all right, its devastating. Yes, all right, immediately upon hearing the news thousands of voices (generally left-of-center, younger voices) cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. My radio called Jon Stewart something along the lines of a generations Brian Williams and so I dont have a radio any more because I stabbed it with a fork and threw it out a window. Hes not a generations Brian Williams. Brian Williams was barely a generations Brian Williams. Jon Stewart was something altogether different. I grew up with The Daily Show. Sixteen years may not be long in the galactic scheme of time, but it is long enough for a whole generation of viewers to grow up thinking that high-quality, daily news-satire is a right, not a privilege. The arrival of Stephen Colbert only confirmed us in this opinion. We lived large, never thinking that this was not how things had always been. But eventually I calmed down. You dont do this every time the Doctor switches. Besides, it is possible, in some ways, that The Daily Show with Jon Stewart has run its course. It saw its first major antagonist George W. Bush in and out the door. It went from novel to familiar. It became a reliable critic of the excesses of cable news, but an institution in its own right, with its own tropes and rituals. The news, but funnier. The news, but with an acknowledgment of how ridiculous it was. Jons tone, mingling exasperation with bursts of glee, was ideal. But if theres one thing we learned from his summer away, it is that, much as we might have thought otherwise, The Daily Show does not need Jon Stewart. Yes, he helped make it what it was, and he was responsible for many of its most memorable rants. Remember Chaos on [Expletive] Mountain? Or, off the show, that time he ENDED Crossfire? But he is far from the only good thing about The Daily Show. Theres Samantha Bee, John Hodgman, Kristen Schaal, Aasif Mandvi, Jessica Williams the list goes on. The model of The Daily Show that Stewart pioneered has produced breakout stars as numerous outlets have observed at a rate that matches SNL in recent years, from Steve Carell to John Oliver to Olivia Munn to Stephen Colbert. His departure leaves room for it to become something even more interesting. Its the Doctor Who of news shows, although I hope they wont just find another identical-looking desk-man but with a hat this time. The show is bulletproof. It is so bulletproof that John Oliver hosted it for a summer and got his own TV show out of it. The army of correspondents, the segments, even that opening guitar riff its a model that has plenty of miles left on it, and that is my consolation. Its not like The Colbert Report, which had to effervesce away with the departure of its central personality. The Daily Show has a personality and tone of its own, set by its writers one that Stewart has embodied but doesnt have to. What always baffles me about these departures is that it seems obvious to someone who has grown up with the show, from Indecision 2000 through the Rally to Restore Sanity, that these are the coolest things that their hosts will ever be involved with. When else are you going to fill the Mall with a mob of people gathering to support the concept of sanity? When else will millions of young people tune in to watch you talk to Bill OReilly. BILL OREILLY! Sure, he can leave. I just cant imagine why hed want to.