Time reports on Jeb Bushs appearance Tuesday at a Florida fundraiser for his education foundation: Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said Tuesday he cant wait to visit Iowa next month to discuss education reform, despite his support for Common Core education standards which have become increasingly toxic among his partys base. Appearing at an education summit in his home state, Bush avoided using the phrase in a 44-minute question-and-answer session. When pressed by reporters, the likely presidential contender maintained he is not running from the standards, and is unafraid that his support for them may doom his prospects in the first-in-the-nation caucuses. I am for higher standards, Bush said, declining to utter the politically charged phrase himself, but dispelling some of the more outlandish misconceptions about the program. I am for creating real restrictions on the federal governments role in this so you can alleviate peoples fears that youre going to have some kind of control by the federal government of content, of curriculum, or even standards. Im against all that. Im against the federal government being involved in demanding that assessments are done in a certain way, he added. The right-wing critics who have built their entire attack against Bush on Common Core and immigration may find out they overplayed their hand. In fact, Bushs statements in op-eds and speeches have frequently stressed that Common Core is a state-led effort and attempts by the Obama administration to impose it by mandate are inappropriate and should be resisted. What hehas said over and over again is tohave high standards, wherever they come from. In other noteworthy comments, he bashed teachers unions for putting their own interests above those of students and made the case that class size (a favorite bugaboo of unions) does not correlate to student success. In the brief scrum (we obtained a copy of the audio), Bush also said he favored fewer and better tests, an issue under review in education circles. As for immigration reform, he again made the case that we should shift not necessarily increase immigration to high-skilled and economically beneficial immigrants, away from family unification for extended family members. (People, the best and brightest around the world, want to come here, so we should fix our immigration system.We have a chance of getting 600,000 first-round draft picks every year.) There were two especially interesting takeaways from the appearance. First, although it was a invitation-only fundraiser, Bushallowed in reporters. Thats rare but itmakes sense when you think about it. Nothing is really private anyway and eventually gets leaked, so why not remind the candidate he is on display and earn some brownie points with the media? It is part of what has become a deliberate strategy to woo the media with access. Second, in a preview of his foreign policy speech next week, Bush revealed a no-nonsense tone about the Islamic State. Asked about the latest killing of an American hostage, Kayla Mueller, he said, This is a threat to the world, a threat not just to the region but a threat to us. He said the jihadists are fighting to destroy Western civilization, thats their objective. We should not be timid about expressing exactly what their goals are. Its to create a caliphate to challenge our way of life. On a day when the Obama administration denied that the killing of four in a kosher supermarket in Paris was intended to target Jews (before walking that back), it was a refreshing bit of candor. We will see next week if Bushhas a strategy for defeating the Islamic State that is proportional to the threat.