TODAYS DAILY DIGIT A somewhat subjective rating of the days weather, on a scale of 0 to 10. 7/10: Not too chilly and not much wind. Soon enough youll be begging for a day like this. EXPRESS FORECAST Today: Partly sunny. Highs: Low-to-mid 40s. Tonight: Becoming mostly cloudy. Lows: Upper 20s to low 30s. Tomorrow: Chance of snow showers. Highs: Low-to-mid 40s. FORECAST IN DETAIL You wouldnt know it from todays pleasant and uneventful conditions, but a pair of cold blasts are on the way after the chance of a few snow showers tomorrow. Cold blast number one settles in tomorrow night and Friday. But after another chance of snow showers on Saturday, its cold blast number two that truly brings the bitter chill Saturday night into Presidents Day. Today (Wednesday): Were in between systems today, which means a pretty average day weather-wise. Morning temperatures rise into and through the 30s, then top out in the low-to-mid 40s this afternoon. Winds are light and from a variable direction, with a mix of sun and clouds above. Confidence: High Tonight: Skies cloud up again, which helps keep overnight lows fairly uniform across the area. Temperatures bottom in the upper 20s to low 30s with light winds. Confidence: High For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend Tomorrow (Thursday): A few snow or rain showers are possible, especially in the afternoon, as an Alberta Clipper and cold front come through. Not too worried about any accumulation thanks to highs in the low-to-mid 40s, but I could see a heavier snow shower briefly reducing visibility. Watch for winds to pick up later in the afternoon. Confidence: Medium-High Tomorrow night: Any snow showers should end early in the evening. Were left with gusty winds from the northwest into the overnight, and lows sinking all the way to the teens in the suburbs to the low 20s downtown. Confidence: Medium-High A LOOK AHEAD Friday shapes up as mostly sunny, breezy, and just plain cold with highs only in the upper 20s to near 30. Winds relax Friday night, but its plenty cold regardless, with lows back down to the teens and low 20s. Perhaps a snow flurry or snow shower toward morning. Confidence: Medium-high Another clipper comes at us Saturday with a chance of a snow showers during the day into the evening. As of now we expect a minor accumulation at most, as daytime highs plateau in the mid-to-upper 30s. Prepare for a very cold Valentines Night as winds ramp up big-time and temperatures plunge toward lows in the teens. Still windy Sunday with highs in the 20s and wind chills probably stuck in the single digits, before winds start to relent Sunday night and lows nose-dive into the single digits and teens. Confidence: Medium Building high pressure may promote more sun on Presidents Day, but its of little impact to temperatures, which struggle toward highs in the mid-20s to low 30s. Confidence: Medium SNOW POTENTIAL INDEX A daily assessment of the potential for at least 1 inch of snow in the next week, on a 0-10 scale. 2/10 (): Thursday and Saturday flakes may not be enough to shovel. Hint of storminess next Tuesday or so.