During a very gloomy Grammy Awards, the Internet perked up when Kanye West appeared to pull a Kanye West and stormed the stage in protest of Beyonc not winning one ofthe biggest prizes of the night album of the year which went to Beck for Morning Phase. KANYE THA GOD. https://t.co/8x42pDTmWT Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 9, 2015 However, Kanye grinned, his wife Kim Kardashian grinned; even Jay Z andBeyonc looked mildly horrified but eventually started laughing. It was all a big joke, right? Uh, maybe not. A few minutes after the ceremony ended,Kanye stopped by E!s Grammy after-show with Kim and shared his true feelings about Becks win over Queen Bey. The gist: He was not pleased. Beck needs to respect artistry and he should have given his award toBeyonc, he said, adding: Yall know what it meant when Ye walked on the stage. [Beck was a poorly chosen target for Kanye's rant about 'artistry'] So, looks like he wasnt so happy. We cant really capture Kanyes thoughts (who could?) so instead, heres his entire rant (this one definitely qualifies as a rant) in which he questions the entire point of the Grammy Awards: I just know that the Grammys, if they want real artists to keep coming back, they need to stop playing with us. We aint gonna play with them no more. Flawless,Beyoncvideo. AndBeck needs to respect artistry and he should have given his award to Beyoncand at this point, we tired of it. Because what happens is when you keep on diminishing art and not respecting the craft and smacking people in the face after they deliver monumental feats of music, youre disrespectful to inspiration. And we as musicians have to inspire people who go to work every day. And they listento that Beyoncalbum and they feel like it takes them to another place. Then they do this whole promotional event, that, you know, theyll run the music over somebodys speech, the artist, because they want a commercial advertising. Like no, we not playing with them no more. And by the way, I got my wife, I got my daughter, and I got my clothing line so Im not going to do nothing to put my daughter at risk but I am here to fight for creativity. Thats the reason why I didnt say anything tonight. But yall know what it meant when Ye walked on the stage. Kim, on the other hand, said she wished that her husband had in fact fully stormed the stage. Her sister, Khloe, (one of the co-hosts of the Grammy after-show because the Kardashians essentiallyown E!) agreed and noted he always has next year. I want you to fight for creativity and youre right, Khloesaid. All hailBeyonc.QueenBey. MORE GRAMMYS COVERAGE: PHOTOS: Stars walk the red carpet PHOTOS: Musicians take home the prized Grammy REVIEW | 2015 Grammys: A night of old soul sure packs the blues Full recap: Complete coverage of the 2015 Grammys The only person Sam Smith didnt thank at the Grammys deserves a lot of credit The story behind Beyonces dazzling, but controversial, Grammy performance of Take My Hand, Precious Lord Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett: Whats the deal? Even Pharrell is not Happy. Grammys, why so glum? Sam Smith wins the important best new artist Grammy Iggy Azalea did not win the Grammy for best rap album. But Eminem did.