For obvious reasons, that milestone barely registered in the sports world that day. But it got me thinking about Ovechkins place in Washington sports history, and how high up the masthead he might climb. The two men most often described as Washingtons premier pro athletes Walter Johnson and Sammy Baugh both hail from a different era. Theyre both titans in the histories of their games, and its hard to compare either to the modern era. So lets limit ourselves to the past half-century. Lets also limit ourselves to professional teams. And lets reasonably omit people like Michael Jordan, Jaromir Jagr and Bruce Smith, who did their best work elsewhere. Then lets ask the question: Is OvechkinD.C.s greatest athlete of the past 50 years? Is Ovechkin the best? Yeah, I would think so, said Turner Sportss David Aldridge, who has followed teams in this market for most of his career. Iwould think Ovechkin has been the closest thing D.C. has had to a superstar in his sport, year in and year out. Good company. @ovi8 #AllTimeGr8 #Gr8 #CapsBlues pic.twitter.com/udEs5vezf4 Washington Capitals (@washcaps) February 1, 2015 Now, I had already argued Ovechkins case to Aldridge, which isnt exactly fair. So I turned to others who might know, and kept the slate clean. Longtime radio host Andy Pollin cited Darrell Green and John Riggins, likely the best candidates of the Joe Gibbs-era Redskins. Grantlands Joe House, a lifelong Washington sports fan, voted for Riggins. Former Post columnist and editor Len Shapiro went with Sonny Jurgensen, followed by Wes Unseld. Wizards play-by-play man Steve Buckhantz mentioned all four of those men, plus Art Monk. Comcast SportsNet producer Larry Duvall whos spent 30 years in this market chose Unseld, citing his NBA title and his status as a pillar of the franchise. But Duvalls second choice was the only active athlete who could possibly make this list. Anyone who does not think Alex Ovechkin is one of the best D.C. athletes weve seen in the past 50 years simply does not appreciate hockey, he wrote. Indeed, Ovechkins credentials are overwhelming. He has three league MVP awards; no other D.C. athlete of the last 50 years has more than one. He seems certain to finish in the top 10 of MVP voting for the sixth time this season; only Elvin Hayes can make that claim. Hes made the season-ending all-NHL first team six times; the Bullets/Wizards franchise only has five first-team all-league selections in its entire history. Ovechkin is leading the NHL in goals yet again this season; if he maintains that spot, he would join Gretzky, Gordie Howe, Bobby Hull and Phil Esposito as the only players to win the goal-scoring crown at least five times. As NHL.coms Corey Masisak recently noted, he has scored goals at the fourth-highest rate of any player since the 1940s. He is, simply, one of the best goal scorers the sport has ever seen. To be sure, there are strong cases for the other names mentioned above. Green was among the best at his position for nearly 20 years, winning two Super Bowls, earning four All-Pro nods and becoming the only first-ballot Hall of Famer of the Gibbs era. Jurgensen and Riggins were larger-than-life icons who helped transform the way the Redskins were perceived; Riggins led Washingtons first Super Bowl winner, while Jurgensens media career amplified his importance. Unseld won a rookie of the year and MVP award in the same season, and was the MVP in the NBA Finals, when the Bullets claimed their only title. And there are other Hall of Famers, from Monk, Ken Houston and Russ Grimm to Hayes and Rod Langway. Ovechkins case also has its flaws. Fair or not, his lack of playoff success will be cited by detractors; youve likely already made that argument in your head. Acknowledging right up front that it is colossally unfair to pin underachievement in a team game on any one player, thats my knock on Ovi, House wrote. Hes the dude that has been the constant through all of the playoff-hockey disappointments of the past 10 years. Others will argue its implausible a hockey player could be tops in a market such as Washington. If you walked up to a guy on the street whos 40 years old and whos been watching sports here his whole life, I dont think hed put Ovechkin in the top five, Pollin said. Still others might say its too hard to assess a careers greatness before its over. Its difficult for me to put guys in there that are currently playing, Buckhantz said. Who knows how good John Wall could be? Who knows how good Bryce Harpers gonna be? These guys could be some of the greatest players ever. All fair. So why bother going through this exercise? Because its easy to get used to what Ovechkins doing; he scored 12 goals in 13 January games, and Im not sure I mentioned his name once. Its easy to spend an entire hockey season looking forward to the playoffs, and miss some of his midseason magic, the mortar blasts from the left circle or pucks absurdly swatted out of the air. Its easy to argue that Ovechkins legacy is one of disappointment, ignoring the graying, scruffy battlebot who still monopolizes the camera at league events, whose prime has now lasted nearly as long as Gibbss first coaching stint. The thing that keeps occurring to me when I watch Ovechkin now is Dont take this for granted, and thats in part because I feel like I did like we all did a bit during his big years, wrote Jon Press of the Caps blog Japers Rink. Now I try to soak it in. Were watching one of the greatest goal scorers thats ever played the game, an over-sized personality dominating a glamour-stat category. Hes as great and entertaining as sports figures get. So is he the best Washington pro athlete of the past half-century? Hes at least in the conversation. Put it this way: 40years from now, sportswriters will surely wonder if some fledgling Nats third baseman can measure up to Ovechkins legacy.