After another year of uneven play from its offensive line, Redskins officials aim to shake things up this season. The first move involved lettingcoach Chris Foerster leave for the same position with the 49ers and hiring Bill Callahan to take over. The Redskins are likely to experience more changes, both in scheme and personnel. Outside of Pro Bowl left tackle Trent Williams and center Kory Lichtensteiger, the Redskins dont appear to have any sure things when it comes to starting linemen. Because of an apparent decline in play, and his contract situation, right guard Chris Chester may have played his final game in Washington. Signed as a free agent in 2011, Chester has started every game since at right guard. But he has struggled with consistency each of the past two seasons, and 2015 represents the final year on his contract. A ninth-year veteran, Chester is due to count for $4.8 million against the salary cap this season. However, only $800,000 (the prorated portion of his signing bonus) is guaranteed. So the Redskins, who need to free up some money to create greater flexibility to sign draft picks and free agents, could save $4 million by releasing Chester. Chester has proven durable, but he has lost effectiveness in pass protection in each of the last two seasons. He hasnt had as big an impact in the run game, either. It appeared that Chesters days were numbered last year when the Redskins drafted guard Spencer Long in the third round. But Long showed in training camp and the preseason that he wasnt yet ready to wrestle the starting job from Chester, and so he spent his rookie season as Chesters backup. With a years worth of practices against veterans under his belt, and with a new offensive line coach in place, things could change for Long this season. Callahan traditionally prefers bigger, stronger linemen rather than the smaller, quicker players Washington has opted for in the zone-blocking scheme, and Long fits that mold. If the Redskins remain unconvinced Long is ready, they could look to free agency or the draft. Among the free agent guards expected to hit the market next month iss Cincinnatis Clint Boling, who played under Jay Gruden for the first three seasons of his four-year career. San Franciscos Mike Iupati also is headed for free agency. Scot McCloughan has familiarity with him. The 49ers drafted Iupati 17th overall in 2010. McCloughan and the team parted ways the month before, but he would have scouted him, and likely helped form the teams opinion of the Idaho product, who went on to make the Pro Bowl in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Both Boling and Iupati played left guard for their previous teams, so the Redskins would have to decide if they could make the switch to right guard without problems. Then theres always the draft. While he admits that you have to meet some of your needs through free agency, McCloughan prefers to build the core of his team through the draft, and so the Redskins could look to go this route to improve the guard position. Washington holds the fifth overall pick, but none of the guards in this years class is viewed as top-10 prospects. South Carolinas A.J. Cann, Dukes Laken Tomlinson, Alabamas Arie Kouandjio and Florida States Tre Jackson lead a crop of guards projected to go in the second- to third-round range.