When James Shields finalized hismove to the Padres Monday, Major League Baseball was able to finalize its draft order. Shields was the last of 12free agents to turn down a qualifying offer from his 2014 team, and therefore the last player whose signing requiredthe team that signed him to forfeit its first available pick. That sign-a-player-with-a-qualifying-offer, forfeit-a-pick clause of the collective bargaining agreementmeans the Nationals will not have a first-round pick in the 2015 draft. Max Scherzer turned down a qualifying offer from the Tigers in the fall. In signing him Washington agreed to forfeit its first available draft pick, which would have been the 27th overall. That pick instead slides to the Tigers in the compensation round, 34th overall. So the Nationals will not select a player until the second round, 58th overall. Only the Mariners, who signed Nelson Cruz from the Orioles and lost their first round pick in the doing, will maketheir first pick later. Washington had two picks in the first 57 slots last season, choosing right-handed pitcher Erick Fedde 18th and left-handed pitcher Andrew Suarez 57th. Suarez chose not to sign and returned to the University of Miami instead. That meansthe Nationals get a compensatory second-round pick this year, that 58th overall choice. Theyll thentake the turn determined by last years regular-season record, second-best in baseball, and choose 69th overall, the next-to-last pick in the second round before a second group of compensatory picks. Washington will have the penultimate pick in each of the rest of the drafts 40 rounds. In accordance with the most recent collective bargaining agreement, each team is allotted a signing bonus pool based on where its picks fall and how many are falling to them at all. Exceeding this pool incurs heavy tax penalties, 75 or 100 percent of the overage and a potential loss of draft picks, depending on the extentof the violation. The CBA mandates those poolsgrow in correlation with industry revenue. According to Forbes, Major League Baseballs revenue grew 13 percent in 2014, and so the signing bonus pools should increase accordingly. Those figures have not been made available yet, though Baseball America projected each teams pool, and projected the Nationals tohave the smallest pool of any team. BA estimates Washingtons figure at $3,697,360. The pool for the Astros, who pick early and often, projects to more than $17 million. Last year, the Nationals had the sixth-lowest bonus pool at $5,275,700 and picked once in each round so 40 picks overall. They signed 28 of those 40 players, and did not sign their second-round pick (Suarez) or ninth-round pick (first baseman Austin Byler). This year, Washington is set for another 40 picks, though since none will be made in the first round, none will require first-round money. The Diamondbacks will have the first overall pick in this years draft, the first time since 2011 the Astros havent had that privilege. The last time Arizona chose first overall was in 2005, when then-scouting director Mike Rizzo chose Justin Upton out of Great Bridge High School in Chesapeake, Va.That was Rizzos next-to-last draft with the Diamondbacks. His final first-round pick as scouting director came 11th overall in the 2006 draft,and was used on a right-handed pitcher named Max Scherzer.