When Kanye West went on a rant about artistry, directed at Album of the Year winner Beck (and the Grammys in general), it was a poorly chosen target. To be sure, Becks Morning Phase is nothing more than pretty landscape music; but that doesnt change the fact that Beck has a 20-year-deep discography thats consistently been forward-thinking, genre-jumping and high quality in a way that parallels Wests own career. [Kanye wasnt joking, says 'Beck needs to respect artistry and he should have given his award to Beyonc] If Kanye (or anyone else) needs a reminder of Beck Hansens artistry, heres a quick mix of eight career-spanning songs that show his ability to be great and weird. Soul Suckin Jerk Becks 1994 breakout, Mellow Gold, remains his masterpiece, in all of its haphazard, cut-and-paste, genre-mashing glory. Loser is the generation-defining hit, but Soul Suckin Jerk is just as silly and more deranged. Debra If Beck looked particularly shocked upon receiving his album of the year honor, part of that was certainly due to the presenter none other than His Purple Majesty, Prince. Becks 1999 album, Midnite Vultures, was a clear homage to Prince, no song more direct in its tribute than Debra, the greatest ever tale of love that begins at JCPenney. Fume Remember CD singles? The Loser CD single is one of the best the format has ever offered; this song, about the trouble with doing nitrous while listening to Molly Hatchet, is the highlight. Gamma Ray This surfy song about the apocalypse is one of Becks best efforts of the past decade. The B-side coverby the late Jay Reatard is even more impressive. Thunder Peel Around the release of Mellow Gold in 1994, Beck sandwiched two albums that surely confounded his new fans. One of those, Stereopathetic Soul Manure, was a collection of random bursts of noise, acoustic ramblings and something called Satan Gave Me a Taco. Cyanide Breath Mint His other 1994 album was the all-acoustic One Foot in the Grave, which many Beck snobspurists will say is his best work. This slacker, stream-of-consciousness campfire singalong stands out as one of the best tracks. Lazy Flies Before there was Morning Phase, there was 2002s critically adored Sea Change and before there was Sea Change, there was 1999s Mutations, Becks first (and dare I say best?) attempt at major-label melancholy. Sissyneck After Loser, many thought Beck was ticketed for one-hit-wonder land. But 1996s Odelay established him as a career artist. Where Its At and Devils Haircut are deservedly loved singles, but this spaghetti-Western-funk hybrid is one of the tracks that makes the album a classic. MORE READING: PHOTOS: Stars walk the red carpet PHOTOS: Musicians take home the prized Grammy REVIEW | 2015 Grammys: A night of old soul sure packs the blues Full recap: Complete coverage of the 2015 Grammys The only person Sam Smith didnt thank at the Grammys deserves a lot of credit The story behind Beyonces dazzling, but controversial, Grammy performance of Take My Hand, Precious Lord Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett: Whats the deal? Even Pharrell is not Happy. Grammys, why so glum? Sam Smith wins the important best new artist Grammy Iggy Azalea did not win the Grammy for best rap album. But Eminem did.