Way back in 2010 back before Jon Stewart announced he will leave"The Daily Show," beforeStephen Colbert left to replace David Letterman, before John Oliver left to start his own show, before Brian Williams got suspendedfor "truthiness"Stewarttook his brilliant brand of fake news satire offthescreen. In an event that was part marketing stunt, part satiric response to conservative commentator Glenn Beckandpart meta moment of cognitive cultural dissonance, he and Colbert hosted the is-it-fake-or-is-it-real"Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear" just days before the midterm elections. In the lead up to the event, which drew throngs of fans and supporters to the National Mall, media studies professors pondered Stewarts ability to mobilize people, calling it his watershed moment. Othersfretted he risked being too earnest, urging him not to move to the front of the country. Nearthe close of the three-hour rally, Stewart did just that, blaming Washington and sounding a little too much like a politician as he told the crowd we live now in hard times, not end times and if we amplify everything, we hear nothing. For a brief and somewhat awkward moment, the nation got a taste of its comedic truth teller in a vaguely familiarleadership role. However oddthe whole episode may have been, whats worth remembering as Stewart begins his long final bow at the helm is that hes long been a leader in his own right. He may claim to be nothing more than a comedian who hostsa fake news show. But on the qualities we should be judging leaders influence, intelligence, innovation, willingness to speak truth to power Stewart stands above many who hold more official roles. He was early to topics such as Citizens United, leading the conversation on campaign spending regulation before many understood its reach or power. He explained the income inequality problem better than President Obama ever could, pundits claimed. Though seen as a darling of the left, he held Democratic leaders to taskas he did Republicans. He also led a show that was a true talent incubator, producing stars likeStephen Colbert andSteve Carell. And he even brought aboutreal change, such as when he advocated for a 9/11 health bill for first responders that had been held up in Congress. Most of all, Stewartchangedthe way people consume news and, to some extent, the way the media presents it. He forced people to re-examine the information they were getting and how it wasdelivered. For many, he offered a voice for the frustration and irritation theyfelt over the way Washington is run and the inanityof our political leadership. He became a rare trustedfigure at a time when so many in power were not. Stewart'sfuture career plans are unknown. He has jokedthey include "a nap" and "dinner on a school night with my family, who I have heard from multiple sources are lovely people." Hetold his audience on Tuesday thathe has a lot of ideas, "a lot of things in my head," though they apparently don't involve political office. (Hehas dismissedthat notion outright in the past, saying he doesn't have the patience.) Whatever he does, he's likely to have an impact. As Stewart hasshown at the helm of "The Daily Show," it doesn't take a powerful office or a traditional leadership role to bring aboutsignificant change. Read also: Dean Smith's wisdom on leading teams How to lead like Jon Stewart Like On Leadership? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.