Millennials love Las Vegas, but they'refar less enamored with the casino world's hyper-profitable lifeblood, slot machines. So to hook young visitorsback onto pulling the lever,the kings of the Strip are betting ona new strategy:making gambling look like avideo game. A state Senate committee in Nevada is considering a bill that would allow casinos to add more skill-based gambling -- like playing Angry Birds, but for cash --on top of the typical games of chance. And gambling's gamemakers are modeling slots after modern-day pastimes likeFacebook poker and free-to-play games, which have won huge audiences outside the casino floor. "You have as much chance getting a millennial intoslot machines as you do getting your grandmotherinto playing 'Halo,' " said David Chang, chief marketing officer for Gamblit Gaming, which is developing games in what it calls the "emerging interactive entertainment meets gambling space." "Slots today aredesigned entertainment experiences, but for a completely different demographic, and that'speople who grew up with slot machines." Slots are one of the gambling world's best moneymakers: Big, loud, bright and cheap to run, no dealer or croupier required. They're also cash cows: Slots often offera 60 percent profit margin, compared with the single-digit margins of traditional table games, a University of Nevada at Las Vegas papersaid. Millennials still enjoythe skill and social playof games like poker and blackjack, casino analysts say.But today's advanced, go-anywhere games on cellphones and social media have made pressing one button while seated at a bank of flashing slot machinesseemprimitive in comparison, and young gamblers haven't looked back. Visitors to Vegas are trending younger, with the average age dropping from 50 to 45 since 2009, city data show.But travelersare flocking to Sin City more for theglitzy entertainment -- nightclubs, lounges, trendy restaurants -- thanthe big wager. The share of Vegas visitors who gambled during their stay fell to 71 percent in 2013, down from83 percent four years back. The days of "grand casino openings with people rushing to play the slots are gone,Nevada's Gaming Control Board chairman A.G. Burnett said, according to the Las Vegas Sun. "The old style of slots simply needs to change. This means adding skill and social elements to the slot mix." Gamblit is working with casinos and regulators on concepts that wouldmash together the vivid play of mobile games with the random chance of slots. Someone coulddownload andplay one of their games, like "Police Pooches vs. Zombie Cats: In Time," on their phones back home, wagering and playing with virtual credits, then switch to playing with real moneywhen they've connected to the WiFi in an area where gambling is legal, like a Vegascasino. The "real-money gambling platform" could also extend tolarge touch-screen tabletops, added in casino hot spots like lounges, bars and VIP suites -- wherever a young gambler couldwalk byand be persuaded to try their luck. The typical casino "wants somebody to sit down in front of a slot machine and be at that slot machine for hours, interacting with that piece of entertainment for as long as possible. ... Millennials don't do that.They consume multiple streams of entertainment simultaneously," Chang said. "Wedon'tknow when someone is going to want to engage, but we know theres a very short window for their attention, and we want tomaximize our chances of success on a bunch of different channels. ...We know millennials have no moral issues with gambling. They just haven't found products that are designed for them." The challenge for adding skill into slots, the ultimate skill-less game, has always been that a player couldget so good that the casino couldend up losing out. But Chris LaPorte, who owns a Las Vegasarcade bar anddevelops casino games, told the Sun there are methodsto makesure that, even in skill gaming, the house always comes out on top. "There is definitely a way my way for the casino to be happy, just as much as the customer is happy with their experience," he said. The bad luck of the slots business has run counter to the precipitousrise of digitalgaming, especiallyfree-to-play games that make money throughin-app purchases and have attracted a wider market than traditional video games. Two of the biggest, "Clash of Clans" and "Game of War: Fire Age," make more than $1 million a day, loot thatwent towardbuying Super Bowl ads. Some of the biggest gamemakersare taking cues from the mobile-gaming world to get young gamblers back on the casino floor. Bally Technologies, the world's oldest slot-machine maker, said last summer it would pay up to $100 million to buyDragonplay, a five-year-oldIsrael-based developer ofpoker, slots and bingo games playable on Facebook and cellphones. Others are simply thrashing in the dark. During the Nevada Governors Conference on Tourism in 2013, marketing consultant Chuck Underwoodsuggested executives could get 20-somethings in the door by offeringrewardssimplyfor showing up. Its what they grew up with," he said. "Everybody got a trophy."