As of June 12, The Post has started phasing in its metered subscription model. It will roll out in phases, so you may not see the paywall for several weeks. For $14.99, you can subscribe to unlimited access to content on our Web site, mobile Web site, e-Replica Edition, and our smartphone and tablet apps. For $9.99, you can subscribe to unlimited access to content on our desktop and mobile Web sites. Below are some questions and answers that may be helpful to Post commenters. For a more general FAQ on our digital subscriptions, click here. If I dont subscribe, how many articles can I read per month? All readers get free access to Washington Post digital content for up to 20 articles per month. In addition to articles, blog posts, slideshows and other multimedia features count toward your monthly limit. Do comments count against my monthly limit? No, comments do not count against your monthly limit. The article (or other piece of content) you are commenting on will count as one of your monthly views. Your monthly limit is based on items, not page views, so you can comment as much as youd like on that piece of content. You can also return to the page to read other comments and view replies to your comment. You can also always browse the homepage, as well as section fronts, blog fronts, videos, the Going Out Guide, Washington Post Live, Puzzles & Games, Classifieds and Jobs. If you participate in Live Q&As Carolyn Hax or Gene Weingartens Chatalogical Humor, for example know that each live discussion will count as as an article view. As with comments, the number of questions you can submit to a live Q&A will not be limited. Viewing the schedule on live.washingtonpost.com will not count against your monthly limit. If I go back and read (or comment on) an article Ive already read, will that count toward my monthly limit? No. If you view an article you have already read in the current month, it will not count again toward your monthly limit. If I access an article or other Post content through web searches or social media, will it count toward my monthly limit? If you come to article through web searches or links on social media sites like Twitter or Facebook, those will not count toward your monthly limit. Also, if you subscribe to Post newsletters and click through them to access content, that will not count toward your monthly limit. I am a student, teacher, school administrator, government employee or military personnel. I get free access right? Yes, as long as you are accessing The Post through your school or workplace, you will have complimentary unlimited access. This access is limited to .edu, .mil and .gov domains and is NOT based on the e-mail address you used to register for washingtonpost.com. Update: This has changed you can now get free access by verifying your .mil, .gov, or .edu email address. Make sure youre signed in and go to your account profile (click on your username from the upper lefthand corner of any page on washingtonpost.com). You will see an option to verify your email address from your profile page. Im a home delivery subscriber. Do I have free digital access? If your home delivery account is already connected to the account you use to read and comment on The Washington Post web site or apps, you dont need to do anything further. Just sign in and youll get unlimited access. If your account is not linked, just go here and enter your account number and delivery zip code: https://ssl.washingtonpost.com/actmgmt/profile/account-link-form?profile=true Can I share my digital subscription with other members of my household? Yes. You can share your subscription with up to one other reader. Go to your Account Profile page https://ssl.washingtonpost.com/actmgmt/profile/show and click on Add another person to my account. Only the primary account holder will be able to view and edit the full range of account details, such as billing and subscription information. Related: Washington Post to phase in a paid online subscription model Publishers note: How the paywall will work Here are a few Post bloggers explaining how the paywall will work with their blog communities: The Fix Achenblog Plum Line Wonkblog This post has been updated since it was first published.