Discovery Channels MythBusters will launch its 13th season next month by testing the validity of some classic scenes from The Simpsons, Entertainment Weekly reported. One of those scenes comes froman old episode, Sideshow Bob Roberts, in which Homer prevents a wrecking ball from destroying his house by placing himself between the ball and the house. The MythBusters hosts will, as always, use scientific methods to see if that actually works. Theyll also throw a cherry bomb into a toiletto try to cause nearby toilets to explode with water, much like Bart didinSeason Ones Crepes of Wrath. Several people were like, This is a cartoon! What can you do with this? MythBusters co-host Adam Savage told EW. We looked through many, many, many different bits on The Simpsons, but I think that we found stuff that really is entertaining and not totally outside the realm of physics unlike, say, Wile E Coyote stuff might be. We reached out [to 'The Simpsons' producers], and they were totally into it. In a 2007 interview with Vanity Fair, former Simpsons writer Conan OBrien said the shows creator, Matt Groening, didnt want to make azany, hair-brained cartoon with incredibly improbable scenes. He wanted respect for the laws of gravity, the physical properties of the basic elements, OBrien recalled. I would run up against that sometimes. For example, you cant have Bart shoot Homer in the face with a shotgun and make Homers face all black, and then have Homer be fine in the next scene. You can do it in a Halloween episode you just cant do it in a normal episode. In the episode Marge v. Monorail, Leonard Nimoys animated likeness beams out, which was something Groening had protested because it couldnt actually happen in the physical world, OBrien said. Eventually, though, the scene made it through because beaming out existed in the world of Star Trek. He wanted to make sure that we didnt wreck this beautiful machine that he had built, OBrien added. So if the show did pay special attention to things such as the laws of gravity, what other seemingly bizarre scenarioscould the MythBusters guys actually re-create?Here are five scenes that we feel deserve consideration. (Disclaimer: Dont try these at home!) Is it possible to be bite down onto a ceiling fan and have it spin you around? Simple premise: Grandpa Simpson falls asleep while babysitting the kids. Bart hatches a dental plan of sorts, stealing grandpas dentures and, eventually, biting down onto a spinning ceiling fan. He gets a few good spins in before hes thrown off, sans fake teeth. This looks like it could be a fun and affordable ride, so I want to know if I (or a smaller person) canactuallydo this. Can youjump up and down on a skateboard while that skateboard is carrying youin the air? I knowthis one fallsinto Wile E. Coyote territory, or at the very least comes close. But I have some legitimate physics questions (perhapsbecause the last physics lesson I had was in high school, but I digress). Homerrolls down a steep ramp and attempts to jump across a gorge. Technically, its possible. But he manages to say a bunch of stuff while hes traveling mid-air, such as: Im going to make it! Im going to make it! This is the greatest thrill of my life! Im king of the world! That takes Homerabout eight seconds to get out, which seems like anawfully long time to be in the air. Just how big of a jump is this? But even more vexing: Homer jumps up and down on that skateboardwhile the skateboard is traveling horizontally, and he moves with it. In real life, would that skateboard fall to the ground? Would Homer have gone down with it?Only one way to find out! Can a baby drive a car? I know it sounds ridiculous, butstick with me here, because this could be very adorable. I envision one scenarioin which a Maggie-aged baby could drive a car: Placean object on the gas pedal to power the car forward, and placethe baby on top of some books or something and haveher steer. Sound the safety alarms! Heres asafeguard: Have the baby attempt to drive a drivers ed car with a passenger-side wheel and a second set of gas and brake pedals. And have a human adult sitting in that seat. Let the cuteness commence! Can you shake a beer can so much that opening it causes an explosion? Barts April Fools Day prank blows up in his face, quite literally. The beer explosion ends in a beer shower that prompts Chief Wiggums to run to the Simpson house on foot. Bart creates the explosion by placing a beer can in a paint shaker for an unspecified period of time. Once Homer opens it, theres a giant explosion. While its unlikely thata similar-sized reaction could be recreated in real life, cananything deemed an explosion be caused by a beer can thats undergone severe shaking? Can you make a pig fly by clogging a dam with it? Making a pig fly is a great premise for a joke and also a great prompt for an experiment. In this episode, new vegetarian Lisa pushes a barbecue-roasted pig on a cart into traffic; it eventually ends up in a river, where it clogsa dam. The pressure of the water builds up until it finally pushes the pig with such force that its shot into the air. Can. This. Happen??? I want to know. Science demands it, MythBusters. Please get on it (but not you, at home; refer to disclaimer above). *** Have a suggestion not included here? Leave it in the comments below.