Its a weird quirk of modern award shows: Even though using social media is as natural as breathing, producers still appear dazzled that they can add Facebook or Twitter to the proceedings. Thats the only way to explain why the Miss Universe Pageant felt the need to introduce a new segment on Sunday night in which the Top 5 contestants were required to answer a viewer question from Facebook, in addition to the regular question and answer portion of the competition. The end result: The prolonged segment already uncomfortable, as usual was just awkward. As audiences know quite well, the Q&A portion of any beauty pageant is the most cringe-worthy part. Contestants have mere seconds to answer a complicated question (like, say,something about ISIS) and deliver a camera-ready soundbite, and the situation is ripe for someone to go viral with a terrible response. Perhaps hoping for one of those incidents to bring more attention to the pageant, Miss Universe co-hosts Natalie Morales and Thomas Roberts happily introduced the new segment to viewers, encouraging the audience at home to send in questions. This was toward the end, just before Miss Colombia Paulina Vega was named the winner and Miss USA Nia Sanchez the runner-up. I just love this, because for very first time, our viewers have submitted a final question via Facebook that will be asked of all five finalists, Morales said excitedly once the Top 5 were announced. That question was selected from thousands posted by our fans. An added twist: All five contestants would be on stage and answer the same query, and therefore required to wear soundproof headphones so they wouldnt know the question until it was their turn. So, the final five (Miss Colombia; Miss USA; Miss Jamaica Kaci Fennell; Miss Netherlands Yasmin Verheijen; Miss Ukraine Diana Harkusha) stood together and yes, each of them had a man behind them whose sole job was to replace and remove the soundproof headphones. The question, asked by a Facebook fan named Maria: What is the greatest contribution of your country to the entire world? It actually wasnt a bad question, at least compared to some of the gems earlier asked by judges. (If you were given 30 seconds to deliver a message to a global terrorist, what would you say? was the question posed to Miss USA.) Still, the gimmick dragged for what seemed like a lengthy amount of time. And overall, it was highly unnecessary, particularly after the regular Q&A segment that had already gone on too long. Several convoluted questions had to be repeated multiple times when contestants, a couple using interpreters, werent clear about what the judges were asking. The answers were fine, too (though they all obviously generated plenty of Twitter snark) but the segment added nothing except more padding to the three-hour show. Most importantly, it was a good reminder that although award show and pageant producers may be tempted to spice things up with social media, it often serves very little purpose.