The Simpsons welcomed billionaire inventor and entrepreneurElon Musk to Springfield on Sunday night, when Musk was presented as an uninspired visionary in need of new ideas. Naturally, Homer Simpsons incoherent ramblings proved to be a muse for the man behind Tesla and SpaceX. The episode ended with Musk blasting off into space in his SpaceX Dragon craft. Hmm, for a man who likes electric cars, he sure burns a lot of rocket fuel, Lisa Simpson noted after the launch. Burn. That jab from Lisa prompted a well, actually response from Musk: After the show aired, hefired off a series of tweets explaining why the Dragon spacecraft doesnt use an electric rocket. If u saw @TheSimpsons and wonder why @SpaceX doesn't use an electric rocket to reach orbit, it is cuz that is impossible Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 26, 2015 Reason is Newton's Third Law. In vacuum, there is nothing to "push" against. You must react against ejected mass. Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 26, 2015 Musk went beyond the SpaceX to explain how far off we are from things such as, say, elevators to space. And pls don't ask me about space elevators until someone at least builds a carbon nanotube structure longer than a footbridge Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 26, 2015 Ion thrusters are great, but have extremely tiny force (photon thruster even less). Must have more thrust than weight or you don't go up. Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 26, 2015 He also left followers with a parting thought regarding the use of electricity in space travel. Final one: anything launched by a railgun (if you could ever reach ~ Mach 27) would explode upon exiting the barrel in our dense atmosphere Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 26, 2015 But real-life Musk didnt address other inventions seen on the show; what of this self-packing suitcase, for instance? This isnt the first time that peoplehavefact-checked the physicsbehind The Simpsons. Earlier this month, the MythBusters guys dedicated an episode to testingout some of the most iconic Simpsons scenes, including that time Homer attempted to stop a wrecking ball from knocking down his house. MORE READING: MythBusters to test scenes from The Simpsons. Here are five that should be re-created. Elon Musk: With artificial intelligence we are summoning the demon. Elon Musks SpaceX settles lawsuit against Air Force