So, the Grammys lastedthree-and-a-half hours and featured tons of performances, lots of sad moments, some weird interludes and very few actual awards. Heres everything you missed: * Sam Smithwins pretty much everything. The British soul singer had a huge night. He wonfour awards out of his six nominations,including three in the major categories: record of the year and song of the year for his hit Stay With Me,and he beat out the likes of Iggy Azalea and Bastille for best new artist. While accepting his final prize, a thrilled Smith gave a shout-out to his ex-boyfriend that inspired the super-depressing album. Thank you so much for breaking my heart, because you got me four Grammys. Bittersweet twist: While Stay With Me sales will surely spike on Monday, Smith was recently required to pay royalties to Tom Petty because of the similarities between that tune and Pettys I Wont Back Down. * Thebiggestsurprise? Beck. Many people were expecting Smith to make a clean sweep of the most prestigious awards, but Beck swooped in to steal the biggest honor of the night as Morning Phase won Album of the Year. Even Beck looked stunned, which led to * Kanye tries to pull a Kanye. But he was just kidding! Or was he? As a throwback to his most infamous award show moment, Kanye West faux-stormed the stage when Beck won Album of the Year overBeyonc. The best part was Jay Z andBeyonc in the crowd, looking horrified before they realized he was just joking around.We were certain this was a joke until he went on a classic Kanye rant and actually said that Beck should have given his award toBeyonc. KANYE THA GOD. https://t.co/8x42pDTmWT Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 9, 2015 * Beyonc starts Take My Hand Precious Lord with a Hands Up, Dont Shoot background. Dozens of backupperformers held up their hands asBeyonc began her performance, which then segued into Common and John Legend singing Glory from Selma. Lyrics included: Thats why Rosasat on the bus/Thats why we walked through Ferguson with our hands up. Earlier, during Pharrells performance of Happy, he and his back-up dancersalso held up their hands. Prince introduced the album for the year prize by saying Albums,like books and black lives, stillmatter. * Katy Perry brings a domestic abuse survivor on stage. Socialactivism was front and center at yet another award show, as President Obama appeared to promote a new initiative to end sexual assault on campus. Shortly afterward, domestic abuse survivor Brooke Axtell came on stage to share her story about being in an abusive relationship; Katy Perry followed with her ballad By the Grace of God. * Nearly every performance was super-slow and depressing. You know its a gloomy Grammy Awards when Usher (who dances with animated bees in Honey Nut Cheerios commercials!) plays a slowed-down ballad during his tribute to Stevie Wonder. Come on, its Usher he should dance. * Kristen Wiig playsSia during Chandelier Sorry, Madonna you tried really hard with the horns, but Sias performance was the one that stole the show. Mostly because Sia (who famously never shows her face) sent out Kristen Wiig in her place. * Dozens and dozens of performancesand virtually no awards. While the Recording Academy tried to shake things up and spread out the awards over the night (even ending on a performance and not dragging out album of the year to the end),the show only presented nine awards on air out of nearly 90 categories. Bonus: Look at who are pals now! Yeezy and a fan pic.twitter.com/sNNB9Ot805 Desus Nice (@desusnice) February 9, 2015 MORE GRAMMYS COVERAGE: PHOTOS: Stars walk the red carpet PHOTOS: Musicians take home the prized Grammy REVIEW | 2015 Grammys: A night of old soul sure packs the blues Full recap: Complete coverage of the 2015 Grammys Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett: Whats the deal? Even Pharrell is not Happy. Grammys, why so glum? Sam Smith wins the important best new artist Grammy Iggy Azalea did not win the Grammy for best rap album. But Eminem did.