Welcome back to the land of the dead, kids! Great news! WERE GETTING OUT OF GEORGIA!!! (Slight possible spoilers ahead.) Yes, I know were all still torn up about Beth. Youll recall that she was the longshot in our Irresponsible Betting Guide to who would get wasted in the mid-season finale, going off at 22-1. And yet there she was in Evil Cop Dawns Hospital from hell, just about to walk out with Rick & The Gang, when she turned around and stabbed Dawn. Dawn then shot her through the head and dear old Beth was dead as disco. As was Dawn, about 2.2 seconds later, dispatched by Daryl. That left our crew reunited but crushed, stuck in bombed out Atlanta with those creepy cops and their weirdo hospital. Other than burying Beth, there didnt seem a lot to do. But wait! Of course there is! Noah, the new guy (better known as Everybody Hates Chris) has mentioned that he was trying to get back to his family, just outside of Richmond. There was a safe compound there when he left, he told the gang. So, in the two-minute preview for tonights episode, Rick is seen telling the troops that its a long trip, but at least has the promise of a safe haven. In the comics, we know they wind up just outside of D.C., so this puts them on that narrative arc. Also, we know from last season, that Morgan (Ricks acquaintance from the shows first episode) had been catching up to them, making it as far as Father Gabes church, where he came across a map with the name of Rick, his old buddy, on it. Hes got to pop up in the rear view before the season finale. This roadtrip comes just in time. For four-and-a-half seasons, Rick & the Gang have seemed unable to find I-95, the Redneck Riviera (Fort Walton Beach, Gulf Shores, etc) or even Valdosta. Now theyre off and running, with no base and no home, headed for Virginia. If they dont hole up at least one night at a Cracker Barrel on this trip, getting some stale Moon Pies n R.C. Colas, then it really is the end of the world. See you guys back here after tonights show for the recap!