Somebodys gotta go. You know it. I know it. Only one cast regular has died in the entire first half of season five of The Walking Dead and the mid-season finale is Sunday. (Toodles, Bobster!) One? Seriously? This, despite Daryl, Rick and Glenn being tied up at a hog trough by cannibals. This, despite Beth being kidnapped by rape freaks in Atlanta. This, despite Daryl being choked out by a psycho cop while walkers were trying to gnaw his knuckles. No, kids, this cant stand. The first Horror Movie Rule has always been: Somebody Must Die So That The Threat To Our Heroes Is Real. So! Lets get to the betting action, with is a tip sheet for irresponsible, totally unfounded crackpot death theories! Lets begin with whos NOT gonna die, and for which the house will not post odds: Daryl? DARYL? Dont even start. Michonne? Hit the spa for some lock maintenance, luv pumpkin! Youre good. Sheriff Rick? Now that hes stopped being Farmer Rick Who Sees His Dead Wife And Accepts Phone Calls From Imaginary Dial Tones, the Ricktator is back to ripping peoples throats out. Hes safe for (likely) everything but the final show of the final season. Dude boy used to be almost as irritating as his now-dead mom. But then he shot her in the head after she was bleeding out after giving birth to Baby Judith (dabs tear) and now we sorta like Carl and his hat. (But: Stop getting uppity with your dad. He aint the one.) Unconscious in the hospital? No biggie. Beth just gave Carol a shot of something or other. Pop over to the salon with Michonne and perk up that pixie. Also, in the so-barely-there-it-doesnt-even-matter department: Everybody Hates Chris and that chick from Woodbury who never does anything. Tara? Its Tara? Thank you. Nobodies. No odds. Now then! The potential deadsters, in descending order of likelihood. Johnny, get those parting gifts ready! BETH, youre saying?! Shes survived so much! Exactly. And then Evil Cop Dawn just told Beth that shed pegged her for being soft, but now realizes that she was wrong and Beth, shes plenty tough. Has big cuts on her face to illustrate the point. Uh-oh. Dawns assessment might be inspirational to the point of self-sacrifice (for injured Carol). House offer: 22-1. You are irritating us, Tyreese. You babysit, you dont wanna hurt nobody no more, you talked Rick out of slitting throats in the hospital Buck up, bubba! Ordinarily, this bout of pre-apocalyptic sensitivity would get you chomped (ask T-Dog) and thats my point. TWD cant go around just offing every black dude who pops up on the show. Bob already bit it this year. 13-1. Glenn (and wifey, Maggie). The Marital Symbol of Young Love. One of you two going out would be a jolt, so it could happen, but without you two, there would be no couples left in the zombie apocalypse. Nah. 9-1. Father Gabe will be around to proselytize to the heathen masses mainly for reasons above (see, Tyreese) but also because he just got here and hasnt caused any significant damage. Hes supposed to be Deeply Troubled. Whats the point of bringing him and his angst on the show to kill him off a few episodes later? Then again, hes wandered off from the church, meaning Michonne or Carl might have to come to the rescue. Since weve established theyre both safe, that means he wouldnt be. 6-1. Sasha was golden. But then she ate all the Doritos in the stupid bag and let that Evil Cop trick her last week, right when Rick and the fellas were going to negotiate for the release of Carol and Beth. That means shes put others at risk, including her very own brother, so shes gonna be working off a guilt trip. Might be compelled to play heroine and thus get shot, eaten, or both. Thats what falling for sob stories gets you, sweetpea. 9-2. Eugene. Eugene. You and your Tennessee Top Hat have provided a narrative arc (Get me to DC and Ill save the world!). But you were a hoax. You have cost peoples lives. Your narrative arc has run, brother. Was Abes knocking you out punishment enough? Maybe, but you still dont have anything to do and nobody but Maggie likes you. Suicide by walker? Theres a big herd just up the road. 2-1. Like Eugene, Abe is now a third wheel on a hot date. Nobody bought into Eugenes hokum more. You seriously believed a cry-baby mullet in a Houston parking lot was a world-famous scientist with a cure to save humanity? What have you got to live for now, Mr. Lets Skedattle to DC? Plus, were kinda full up on alpha males. Rick and Daryl aint going nowhere, and Tyreese has got to butch back up pretty quick. Also, you had the sex-in-a-horror-movie offense a few episodes back (see below). You die in a valiant but futile effort to save Eugene? A two-fer? Death rides a red-headed horse. 3-2. Rosita, Rosita, how your bandoleras slay me. Could be a nice little waltz, yknow? But things do not look good, despite your status as Daisy Duke of the Apocalypse. Youve been around a while, but arent a big timer. Uh-oh. Much worse is that the script finally humanized you a bit last week, you got a nice little laugh with Glenn and demonstrated survivor usefulness, snagging & cleaning them catfish. Worse still, you had cheap and noisy sex with your boyfriend Abe, and didnt really mind Eugene watching (Hes over there in the self-help section!) While we appreciate your inner freak, thou must remember the Horror Movie Rules: People who have sex for fun are so going to get it by the third reel. Precedent: Shane and Lori kicked it in the woods. Shane then kicked it with Andrea in a car. Shane, Lori and Andrea as dead as pork chops. But pay attention, please Maggie and Glenn do it for luv. Even Daddy Herschel ultimately approved. They got married and everything. So, see, theyre higher on the survival chart than you lust-crazed troglodytes. Plus, you being in peril would bring Abe in a rush, and maybe even Eugene, which might result in the type of zombiefied threesome nobody was looking for.8-5. Please place all wagers with a licensed professional and only where this sort of thing is legal. And please be prompt Sunday. You dont want to miss the spatter.