The house looks as if it has been plucked from a whimsical fairy tale and set down among a forest of Cape Cods and Colonials in Bethesda. Often referred to as the Mushroom House, the home began as an ordinary dwelling in 1923. It wasnt until Edward and Frances Garfinkle decided they needed more room that it was transformed into something in which Bilbo Baggins might live. The Garfinkles bought the home in 1967. In the early 70s, they renovated it, nearly doubling the size of the original house. When asked how it ended up turning into the house they have today, Edward said, I guess I think of it as one step at a time. You go one step at a time and then you stop and look back and say, How did I get here? We got involved with an architect that had some wild ideas, a lot of which we liked the thinking behind them. You could say the main thing was we were young, he said. A lot of times when you are young, you dont put a lot of thought into what youre doing. You say, Oh, this is fun. Lets do this. And thats kind of how it went. Contrary to what the end result may suggest, the Garfinkles didnt enter into the process with outlandish ideas. Our wants were pretty simple, Edward said. We knew that we didnt want to live in a box. We didnt want straight walls and low ceilings. The architect, inspired by Spanish architect Antoni Gaud, created an undulating design with rolling curves and curls. Because of the homes cavelike exterior, created by a polyurethane foam coating, many people are surprised to find it light and airy inside, not dark and gloomy. It is very, very private, Frances said. It is open and free but very private. Wood beams radiate from the 30-foot ceiling in the great room. Skylights and windows of all shapes and sizes flood the space with natural light. An indoor fish pond abuts the fireplace. Edward described the interior as an explosion of space. Growing up in such an unusual home left its mark on the Garfinkles children. When their son was house hunting in California, he called his parents to complain. He says, Boy, you guys ruined me, Edward said. Im having a hard time being happy with just a conventional house. Now that their children are grown, the Garfinkles are looking to downsize. Its been a magical space, Edward said. Weve loved it. Were not sorry we did it. We wouldnt trade it for anything. Well miss it. The four-bedroom, three-bathroom home is listed at $1.2 million. Listing: 4949 Allan Rd., Bethesda, Md. Listing agent: Donna Wartofsky, Long & Foster Previous House of the Week For more Real Estate news, follow @PostRealEstate and visit our Facebook page.