After Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett were shown arm in arm chatting with Ryan Seacrest on the Grammys red carpet, some might wonder whats the deal? Generally, 28-year-old pop stars dont hang out with 88-year-old jazz standard singers, but these two are the exception. Ever since they teamed up for a performance of The Lady Is a Tramp on Bennetts duets album in 2011, the two have become close pals and collaborators, frequently hanging out and performing together. Its been quite a very productive partnership: Gaga and Bennett got together last year to record pop album Cheek to Cheek, where they covered famous tunes by everyone from Cole Porter to Duke Ellington. It hit No. 1 on Billboard charts last fall and on Sunday night, won the Grammy for best traditional pop vocal album. On stage, they sang a sultry version of Cheek to Cheek, the 1935 Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers number and appeared to have a blast on stage. Earlier in the night, they had a rather giddy appearance on the red carpet. [Grammys 2015: Live coverage and full list of winners] When we talked earlier, you told me this was the most important album youve ever made, Seacrest told Gaga when the pair approached. Why is that? Because Im singing songs by the greatest songwriters in the history of American music and Im singing them with this incredible man, Gaga gushed. And were just so happy to be here tonight. And were so proud to win this Grammy, arent we, Tony? Bennett beamed. I love it! Whats the chemistry like between the two of you? Seacrest pressed. We get along great. Were both Italian Americans. We understand each other, Bennett explained. You understand her? Seacrest asked, perplexed. Shes a great artist, Bennett confirmed. You think its funny, but its true. Most of the time when were hanging out, were always in the corner, laughing, and everybodys going What are they talking about? Gaga laughed. Legends on their own and together, @ladygaga and @itstonybennett grace the red carpet! http://t.co/Q0TDdXFd4Z pic.twitter.com/ju1soKds3D The GRAMMYs (@TheGRAMMYs) February 9, 2015 RELATED Iggy Azalea did not win the Grammy for best rap album. But Eminem did. Sam Smith wins the all-important best new artist Grammy