Obamacare consultant Jonathan Gruber is at the mike Tuesday, testifying in front of the House Oversight Committee, answering for a series of what he calls "glib, thoughtless and sometimesdownright insulting comments" he made concerningthe health-care law. The most recent and well-publicized of these are when Gruber was shown on tape sayingthe Affordable Care Act gamed the system in order to obtain passage and relied on the "stupidity of the American voter" and a "lack of transparency" to earn approval. The comments have recast (somewhat) the debate over Obamacare, as Republicans continue to try and undercut and/or get rid of the law, five years after its passage. Gruber's opening statementto the committee includes plenty of apologizing and explaining. Here it is, word for word,along with what he really meant: Chairman Issa, Ranking Member Cummings, and Distinguished Members of theCommittee, thank you for the opportunity to testify voluntarily today. I am pleased to be ableto address some statements I have made regarding the Patient Protection and Affordable CareAct and the reactions to and interpretations of those statements.I am a Professor of Economics at MIT. I am not a political advisor nor a politician. Translation: I would really rather not be here, but here goes. Also, I'm not really in politics, so I'm not very good at what you might call "message control" or "recognizing that I am on camera." Over the past decade I have used a complex economic microsimulation model to help anumber of states and the federal government assess the impact that various legislative options for health care reform might have on the state and federal health care systems, governmentbudgets, and overall economies. I have had the privilege of working for both Democratic andRepublican administrations on health care reform efforts. For example, I worked extensivelywith Governor Romneys Administration and the Massachusetts legislature to model theimpact of Governor Romneys landmark health reform legislation. Translation: I'm not a partisan hack. I have worked with Republicans, too. I later served as atechnical consultant to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and providedsimilar support to both the Administration and Congress through economic microsimulationmodeling of the Affordable Care Act.I did not draft Governor Romneys health care plan, and I was not the architect of President Obamas health care plan. I ran microsimulation models to help those in the stateand federal executive and legislative branches better assess the likely outcomes of variouspossible policy choices. Translation: Reports labeling me as the "architect" of Obamacare were overzealous. I wasn't paid to write the bill (though I do conveniently fail to mention that I was paid $400,000 for my work on the law and that I gave advice to the president in the Oval Office when passage of the law was in doubt.) After the passage of the ACA, I made a series of speeches around the nationendeavoring to explain the laws implications for the U.S. health care system from theperspective of a trained economist. Many of these speeches were to technical audiences ateconomic and academic conferences. Translation: Who could have known that popping off to a bunch of nerds would come back to bite me? Over the past weeks a number of videos have emerged from these appearances. Inexcerpts of these videos I am shown making a series of glib, thoughtless, and sometimesdownright insulting comments. I apologized for the first of these videos earlier. But theongoing attention paid to these videos has made me realize that a fuller accounting isnecessary.I would like to begin by apologizing sincerely for the offending comments that I made. In some cases I made uninformed and glib comments about the political process behind health care reform. I am not an expert on politics and my tone implied that I was, which is wrong. Translation: I am very, very sorry. I misrepresented my involvement in the strategy of Obamacare. So when I said that the law was drafted to avoid the "tax" designation by the Congressional Budget Office (who's going to vote for a tax, after all?), I was blowing smoke. Mea culpa. In other cases I simply made insulting and mean comments that are totally uncalled for in any situation. I sincerely apologize both for conjecturing with a tone of expertise and for doing so in such a disparaging fashion. It is never appropriate to try tomake oneself seem more important or smarter by demeaning others. I know better. I knewbetter. I am embarrassed, and I am sorry. Translation: I am very, very sorry, and I'm going to keep saying that. And again, I was speaking out of school. In addition to apologizing for my unacceptable remarks, I would like to clarifysome misconceptions about the content and context of my comments. Let me be very clear: Ido not think that the Affordable Care Act was passed in a non-transparent fashion. Theissues I raised in my comments, such as redistribution of risk through insurance marketreform and the structure of the Cadillac tax, were roundly debated throughout 2009 and early2010 before the law was passed. Reasonable people can disagree about the merits of thesepolicies, but it is completely clear that these issues were debated thoroughly during thedrafting and passage of the ACA. Translation: Whatever I said about "lack of transparency," taxes and the CBO, Obamacare was debated endlessly, so even if it was written deceptively, it would have beenpretty hard to hide the true nature of the law. I also would like to clarify some misperceptions about my January 2012 remarksconcerning the availability of tax credits in states that did not set up their own healthinsurance exchanges. The portion of these remarks that has received so much attention latelyomits a critical component of the context in which I was speaking. The point I believe I wasmaking was about the possibility that the federal government, for whatever reason, might notcreate a federal exchange. If that were to occur, and only in that context, then the only waythat states could guarantee that their citizens would receive tax credits would be to set uptheir own exchanges. Translation: This is my less-publicized but perhaps more legally problematicgaffe, in which I said states weren't supposed to receive subsidies if they didn't set up their own exchanges (as many states did not). The law also appears to be written this way (oops!), but if had to abide by that, the law might implode on to itself. Republicans have seized on all of this as a way to dismantle the law, and the Supreme Court is hearing this case. But it's not really what I meant. (Again, I'm not a politician.) I have a long-standing and well-documented belief that health carereform legislation in general, and the ACA in particular, must include mechanisms forresidents in all states to obtain tax credits. Indeed, my microsimulation model for the ACAexpressly modeled for the citizens of all states to be eligible for tax credits, whether serveddirectly by a state exchange or by a federal exchange. Translation: Here's some evidencethat I didn't mean that. I am not an elected official, nor am I a political advisor. I am an economist whoran a complex microsimulation model to help Democratic and Republican politicians andtheir advisors understand the impact that their policies would have on the health caresystem. The recent response to my comments at academic and other conferences exceedsboth their relevance and my role in federal health care reform. Translation:You got the wrong guy. I'm the consultant, man. I behaved badly, and I will have to live with that, but my own inexcusablearrogance is not a flaw in the Affordable Care Act. The ACA is a milestone accomplishmentfor our nation that already has provided millions of Americans with health insurance. Ourcountry is embarking on an exciting second open enrollment period that will provide newopportunities for these individuals, and millions more, to choose the insurance plan thatworks best for them. While I will continue to reflect on the causes of my own insensitivity, Ihope that our country can move past the distraction of my misguided comments and focus onthe enormous opportunities this law provides. Translation: Please don't let my comments screw this whole thing up. Related: