The week-long tumult over the comments of Obamacare consultant/architect/outsider/author/guru/casual observer Jonathan Gruber has brought one partisan distinction into very sharp focus. Democrats are all in on the success of the Affordable Care Act itself. Republicans have placed nearly all of their money on the idea that the ACA is doomed by original sin. You've seen the Gruber comments, by now or some iteration of them, anyway. An economist at MIT who parlayed savvy with government number-crunching into lucrative consulting gigs, Gruber appears to have dealt that latter career a death blow by repeatedly suggesting (or directly saying) that Americans were too stupid to understand the law's intricacies and that the bill was drafted to exploit this convenient fact. This has become a key ingredient in a buffet of conservative anger, with more clips emerging and Democrats insisting that Gruber's role wasn't as important as has been suggested. There are three tiers to this story by now. Tier 1is the question of how involved Gruber was in the genesis of the Affordable Care Act. That has largely been answered, thanks to The Post's Karen Tumulty, but still provides fodder for pieces like this from the conservative Free Beacon. Tier 2is the extent to which Gruber's comments reflect dishonest dealing on the part of the administration. When Gruber says that "lack of transparency is a huge political advantage" and that "the stupidity of the American voter" was "critical to get anything to pass," it's taken as a reflection of how the administration looked at the development of the ACA largely because the comments reflect existing conservative frustrations about the law's genesis. (That link, from Reihan Salam at Slate, is one of the best conservative articulations of Obamacare concerns that I've seen. Probably the best liberal perspective on the debate is Jonathan Cohn's at the New Republic.) Tier 3is the question of how well the law itself is working. With open enrollment just underway over the weekend, Gruber's comments have become intertwined with analysis of how the law looks, a year on. And this is where the dichotomy is laid bare. Democrats have always assumed that Obamacare would prove to be a boon over the long term, that the contentious fight over passage of the bill and massive disruptions like the faulty Web sitewould, over time, get lost in the background of a policy that made health care affordable and accessible to millions of people. As I've noted before, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) figured Obamacare would help Dems this year even while HealthCare.gov was still fluky. That millions have gotten coverage already makes the Republican effort more difficult. The right had focused on a two-prong fight. The first prong was the hope that the Democrats would be wrong, and that Obamacare wouldn't work well. This pre-dated the roll-out of the program (remember Sen. Ted Cruz's day-long speech?), and was bolstered with the Web siteglitches and with the influx of complaints about cancelled coverage, the most tangible negative effect for many Americans (though not as many as some conservatives might have you believe). Those cancellations, of course, were more effective to the conservative Tier 2 argument: That Obama and his surrogates had lied when they said that "if you like your plan, you can keep it." This fit nicely with Gruber and alsowithcomplaints about a lack of transparency at the law's passage and with arguments that the law is doomed thanks to poorly written subsidy language all reinforcingthe idea that Obamacare should be uprooted, restarted, undone. Republicans had largely been quiet about Obamacare over the course of the campaign, perhaps partly out of concernthat it would rile up the Democratic base. But it was probably also, in part, because Obamacare was humming along without any glitches. Approval of the policy on the whole slipped downward recently, thanks largely to independents. But users generally rate the coverage and experience well, at levels comparable to non-exchange programs. The emergence of Gruber has allowed conservatives to once again argue against Obamacare almost solely for Tier 2 reasons: That it exposes the flawed way in which Obamacare was crafted. (There are, perhaps obviously, plenty of counter-arguments to that idea.) The importance of the first-tier, the attempt to bind Obama and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) as tightly to Gruber as possible, was almost solely to reinforce that second-tier idea that they, the indisputable owners of the policy, were entirely complicit with Gruber's line of thinking. (Not to mention that those Tier 1 revelations just look bad. Gruber's stupid "stupid" comments are political poison; what can be worse than appearing to say that voters are idiots? Democrats would have run from Gruber even if he'd been the architect of National Pet-A-Puppy Day, much less a contentious bit of policy.) So this is how the chips are being played. Republicans are insisting that Gruber demonstrates that Obamacare was irreparably politically flawed from the outset. Democrats are hoping that Obamacare will continue to prove itself to be politically and practically viable. And it's extremely unlikely that anything will dislodge these positions until one of three things happens: (1)the Supreme Court weighs in, (2) something goes spectacularly wrong with Obamacare, or (3) we hit Jan.20, 2017. The first case is probably good news for Republicans. The second case definitely would be. The third case depends very much on who is being sworn in as president. And, given the politics at play, it's probablythe only case in which Tier 2 and Gruber makes much of a difference.