On Wednesday we told you a story about an Obamacare program that helped poor children and saved taxpayer money. Because of the structure of our health care payment system, the programwas also doomed to fail. Below, the health careCEO we profiled argues that todayspayment models discourage quality improvement in health care, while drivingup costs for everyone. David J. Bailey, MD, MBA, president and chief executive ofNemours: I am, first and foremost, a doctor. I am also the CEO of a regional childrens health system. Curiously, alignment of the two roles is not always as easy as it should be, largely due to the way that our health care payment system is structured. Across the nation, large employers, health systems, health plans and other purchasers have endeavored to transform health care through innovation. The goal is to increase access, enhance care quality and improve the health of populations while controlling costs and bettering value. However promising, these new care models are unsustainable in the predominantly fee-for-service environment where payment is dictated by volume and not linked to quality or efficiency. This payment model doesnt realize the potential that investments in prevention can have in improving health and reducing costs over the long-term. Nemours is experiencing this reality in real time. Through a Health Care Innovation Award from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Nemours piloted a new approach to caring for children with asthma. It involves providing a certified medical home professional with an evidenced-based approach to medical care, active psycho-social support to the family and employing community health workers to assess the home environment for asthma triggers, while helping remove barriers to implementing the individualized treatment plan. Additionally, community liaisons work with government and community partners to address issues outside of the health care system that impact health (housing issues are chief among them). This work builds on Nemours decade-long work in community-based prevention. In our asthma program, school nurses are integral to the care team and are given access to the childs electronic health record with parental consent. The results have been stunning: In a particularly vulnerable population of children, Nemours self-monitoring has revealed at least a 40percentreduction in emergency room (ER) visits in 2013 compared to 2012, with further improvement noted this year. We have also seen a significant reduction in hospitalizations. This is the impact one hopes to see with every pilot aimed at improving care for patients with chronic disease. In fact, I would suggest that this model would likely result in similar improvement for many, if not most, of the chronic diseases in childhood. The cloud behind this silver lining is that Nemours cant afford it. Practically all of Nemours reimbursement comes from fee-for-service. The success of the new care model results in a reduction of ER and hospital revenue and incremental costs to Nemours from providing more comprehensive outpatient care, much of which is not reimbursed. This is unsustainable over the long term. A different approach to payment would support making community-based investments that keep children healthy and out of the ER. It would tie reimbursement to a providers performance on quality, safety and outcomes often referred to as value-based payment. With payment reform, Nemours could potentially scale this care model to not only more asthma patients but also to children with other chronic diseases. We are committed to moving in a direction that values health not volume of services, but need to do so in a way that is financially responsible. Nemours is not alone. Many health systems are experiencing a lack of synchronization between innovation in care models and changes in payment systems that support new approaches to care. We all have a role in transforming the system to spread and scale innovation. Funders could help sustain effective models while providers and payers work on long-term solutions to align their goals toward sustainability. I envision a day in which we are working side by side with our payers, with the shared goal of keeping children healthy. Moving to value-based payment would support new approaches to care, thus enabling efficient, affordable, high-quality care for all.