In a video aired during Sunday night'sGrammy Awards,President Obama urged Americans to take responsibility for stopping sexual violence, saying, "Its not okay and it has to stop." The public service announcementrepresents the latest installment in the White House's ongoing "It's On Us," campaign, which aims toend sexual assaults on college campuses. The administration began the effort in September, withthe support of major college sports leagues andprominent celebrities. Obama asked the artists featured at the Grammys to ask their fans to make the same pledge that these prominent figures have made, along withstudents from more than 200 colleges and universities, several collegiate sports organizations, and some private firms. He saidnearly 1 in 5 women in the U.S.hasexperiencedrape or attempted rape, and that more than 1 in 4 has sufferedsome form of domestic violence. Those statistics come from a survey released by the Centers for Disease Control in September, which concludedan estimated 19.3% of women have been raped and an estimated27.3% of women have experienced contact sexual violence, physical violence or stalking by an intimate partner during their lifetimes. A separate administration estimate, that 1 in 5 women on college campuses have been raped during their time there, has been found to be inaccurate. "Artists have a unique power to change minds and attitudes, and get us thinking and talking about what matters," he said. "And all of us, in our own lives, have the power to set an example. Join our campaign to stop this violence." Theadministration has aggressively usedTitle IX, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender at schools that receive federal funding, to push institutions of higher education to reexamine their policies regarding sexual harassment and sexual assault.The Education Department's Office of Civil Rightsis investigating dozens of colleges and universitiesunder the law. As of Dec. 24, it was looking at cases at 92 schools. The campaign'sads have been viewed online more than 4 million times and, through a partnership with iHeart Radio, have aired on more than 800 stations nationwide. In the closing moments of Obama's spot, he added, Its on us all of us - to create a culture where violence isnt tolerated, where survivors are supported, and where all our young people men and women can go as far as their talents and their dreams will take them.