President Obama's approval rating has ticked upward recently, reaching 50 percent in the most recent Washington Post/ABC News poll. "The biggest factor helping to boost his standing," the Post's Scott Clement and Dan Balz wrote on Monday, "is a series of economic indicators that have shown steadily improving conditions." But, as with everything else, it's not quite that simple. Earlier this month, we looked at the narrow range in which Obama's approval has hovered since 2009. That's largely because Republicans strongly oppose the president and Democrats mostly approve -- meaning that shifts are a function of independent voters changing their minds. You can see that in this graph, which shows how approval of the economy and of the president have shifted over time. The black line shows how approval of Obama has gone up from 2010 to the most recent poll among all adults. Movement left and right are reductions and increases in Obama's approval; movement up is increased confidence in the economy. We've broken out party ID, too. Look at the yellow line. That's independents. And over the last two Post/ABC polls (since last September), they've grown much more approving of the economy and Obama. Notice how much wider the bar is for independents than for Democrats -- or, especially, Republicans. That's why the "all voters" bar isn't very wide, meaning there's only been a small uptick in overall approval: Independents make up less of the population. But the movement among that group has clearly been correlated to increased economic satisfaction. Not convinced that there's partisanship involved in impressions of the economy that might dampen increased support for Obama? Below is a graph of every year's Post/ABC polls, showing the overlap between those who approve of Obama and those who rated the economy "good" or "excellent." The bigger the percentage, the more people who have confidence in the economy. Over time, more and more people are rating the economy positively. But the number of those people who also approve of Obama has grown much more than the number who disapprove of Obama. In other words, either people who don't like Obama are slower to see the economy as increasingly good -- or some people who see the economy as increasingly good aren't then saying they approve of Obama. In other words: The layer of politics that has kept approval of Obama constrained for years also means that the benefits of an improving economy are themselves likely dampened. By now, this is what we've come to expect.