Although at least one woman was said to be in the running to play the 12th Doctor in the BBCs iconic sci-fi series, Doctor Who,it went instead to 55-year-old Scottish actor Peter Capaldi. Another white guy, my daughter complained. Or as comics artist and writer Evan Dorkin tweeted, Doctor Whos okay. But hes always white, hes always a he. Kind of weird in an anything goes universe, eh? Even Oscar-winner Dame Helen Mirren was rooting for a female Doctor. I do think its well over time to have a female Doctor Who, Mirren told the British television program Daybreak in July. I think a gay, black female Doctor Who would be the best of all. Perhaps that answer was over the top, but it does express the complaint that the Doctor a time lord from the planet Gallifrey continues to regenerate into yet another white man on a show that seems to have no lack of imagination when it comes to other characters and situations. Steven Moffat, the shows producer, though, fails to agree. His response to Mirren? I like that Helen Mirren has been saying the next doctor should be a woman. I would like to go on record and say that the queen should be played by a man. For those unfamiliar with Doctor Who, the show first aired from 1963 to 1989 on the BBC; IMDB describes it as the adventures of an eccentric renegade time traveling alien and his companions. It reappeared in 2005, and I started watching the episodes featuring Scottish actor David Tennant as the 10th doctor. I dont consider myself a sci-fi fan at all, but it was something my daughter wanted me to watch and I soon got hooked on Tennants charm and the intriguing storylines. (And for those who watch it, Donnas my favorite companion.) Who wouldnt get hooked on the stories of the Doctors travels through time and space in the Tardis, which looks like an old-fashioned British police box thats bigger on the inside? And the Doctor himself? Well, hes centuries old but doesnt look it; he can regenerate a perfectly good new body when required. Thats led to a series of actors giving their own twist to the Doctors portrayal, and quite a few fans dont believe there are any rules against that new body being female, black, gay or anything else. Weve been teased for years with the possibility of a female Doctor. Tom Baker, the actor who played the fourth Doctor, may have started it when he referred to his successor as whoever he or she is at a 1980 press conference to announce his departure from the show. A group of UK women scientists lobbied for the 11th doctor to be played by a woman, saying that a high-profile character like Doctor Who would help to raise the profile of women in science and bring the issue of the important contribution women can and should make to science in the public domain. When the 11th doctor played by Matt Smith made his first appearance in The End of Time, Part Two, he actually says, Hair Im a girl! as his hands discover his long hair. Then he checks for his Adams apple. No! No! Im not a girl! That, wrote novelist Neil Gaiman, convinced him that a time lord could change gender when regenerating. In The Doctors Wife, an episode Gaiman penned for the series, theres the teasing comment when the Doctor talks about another time lord, the Corsair, having been a woman herself a couple of times, oh she was a bad girl. What fun a female doctor could have been. You see kick-butt heroines in shows from writers like Joss Whedon, but Doctor Whos writers just dont seem to grasp the concept that girls can kick butt or solve problems just as well as the boys, Rachel Hutchison, a friend of my daughters, told me. Early companions such as Sarah Jane and Donna Noble were great. They helped the Doctor as well as kept him in line when he lost control, but newer companions are being portrayed as lovestruck damsels in distress who need constant saving. For those who want to see a woman wielding the sonic screwdriver, theres always hope for the 13th regeneration. Maybe next time fans of a female doctor will get lucky.