Its the classic story. Girl meets boy via prison correspondence. Girl admires boys forehead swastika. Girl and boy plan to marry. Girl reveals she only wants boy so that she can display his corpse. Boy and girl let marriage license lapse. At least thats what a source told the New York Post. Its a tale as old as time, really. How many times have we all said that to our significant others I only want you so I can put your corpse on display? So many times, right? Ive lost count. I always assumed that was what I want your beautiful body meant. Love means never having to say youre sorry for wanting to display your beloveds corpse in a Lenins Tomb-style attraction. Or it should. But no, Charles Manson and his fiancee appear to be calling it quits. There is a rift within the swastika-branded lute. Their marriage license expired Thursday. Just when wed started to believe in love again! To think that something as small as this came between two people who overcame literally every actual logical and plausible objection you could possibly have to a union. If they would overlook that he is a murderous 80-year-old cultist and that she is someone who would willingly marry Charles Manson, why let this stop you? Love isnt logical and rational. You see Romeo and Juliet, I see just one more story that winds up with corpses on public display. Frankly, what else was she going to love him for? The desire to use her spousal rights to obtain a body that could be used as a tourist attraction actually seems like the sanest and most plausible reason to be with Charles Manson that Ive heard yet. My favorite part of this comes in the Independents write-up of the news, which notes, The tourist attraction was also something of a non-starter because Manson believes he is immortal. I suppose he is, as are we all, until proven otherwise. This is good news for all the people who felt bad that, while they were alone, Charles Manson had found himself someone. Even for murderous cult leaders, the course of true love does not run smoothly. That Charles Manson will be spending Valentines Day alone should not be news. The fact that it is is just another sign that we are living in some sort of end times. Now that the license has lapsed, there will be one more lonely soul in a midnight showing of Fifty Shades of Grey by herself. Wow, she, and only she, will say, This is a great model of a healthy relationship.