President Obama and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani spoke by phone on Friday, an event greeted with unbounded and inadvisable enthusiasm by the chattering class. The entire context of the call was troubling to the trained eye. A former U.S. official told me, They are not equals: Obama was freely elected and is head of state and government; Rouhani is none of those. The substance of the call and the presidents remarks afterward were deeply worrisome. Whenever the president parrots the idea that the problem is mistrust between the parties one an open democracy and the other a theocratic dictatorship you know its trouble. The president in doing so merely reinforces the Iranian propaganda that we bearequal responsibilityfor this mistrust. Even worse was his mouthing the Iranian deceptionthat it cant possibly pursue nuclear weapons because Irans supreme leader has issued a fatwa against the development of nuclear weapons.It is frightful to imagine Obama takes seriouslyIrans deceitful line, which haslong since been debunked.The fatwadoesnt existand, even if it did, it would never be a serious restraint on Irans nuclear ambitions. The problem is not that Iran mistrusts us or that there is some religious prohibition on nuclear weapons; it is that the mullahs regimesponsors terror, helps kill Americans, threatens its neighbors, represses its people, holds Americans against their willand violates sanctions prohibiting development of nuclear weapons. As the former official remarked, Why is it an honor and delight to talk to this leader of the top state sponsor of terrorism, who represents a government that is famous for repression and who was unwilling to shake his hand a few days ago? Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) put out a statement on Friday that struck the right notes: I am concerned that President Obama did not press Iranian President Rouhani to halt Irans ongoing support for radical Islamic terrorism, its repeated violations of U.N. and IAEA resolutions, and its support of Bashar Assads war against the Syrian people. These topics were not publicly addressed by the President today, but require his urgent attention. Irans government remains in spite of President Rouhanis rhetoric a brutal, repressive theocracy. It is particularly unfortunate that President Obama would recognize the Iranian peoples right to nuclear energy but not stand up for their right to freedom, human rights, or democracy. The President suggests there is new leadership in Iran, yet Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei remains the true ruler in Tehran, and we are only fooling ourselves when we suggest otherwise. Worse still was the administration flacking on behalf of the Iranian dictatorship. Former White House aide and Obama super PAC head honchoBill Burtontweetedindignantly that it was wrong to call Rouhani a Holocaust-denier. A White House spokesman said it was a positive sign that the Iranians were using social media. (For propaganda, we should note; their citizens are not afforded that right.) The Obama teamswillingness to grab hold of thebait and hold on tightlywas quite remarkable. What we see on the part of the U.S. government is undisguised desperation for a deal. The United States will leave the repressive regime alone (Obama saidthey can stop worryingabout regime change) and even allow it the right to pursue a peaceful nuclear program (Why? How is that advisable given its serial violations of international law?). Obama, as on Syria, needs an agreement from Iran to calm calls for action; the contents matter far less than the existence of a deal. The Iranians demand the right to enrich uranium and a lifting of sanctions. One suspects the Obama administration will cave on those points. Before the telephone call, Congress was poised to move forward with additional sanctions to put the mullahs feet to the fire. We wonder if the call was staged to hold that off and whether the administration, as it has done in the past, will try to slow Congress down. We have a dialogue now! Cant spoil the good mood, you see. Sens. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) reflect the bipartisan concern that the president is getting snowed by a more sophisticated messenger, warning: We believe that four strategic elements are necessary to achieve a resolution of this issue: an explicit and continuing message that the United States will not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapons capability, a sincere demonstration of openness to negotiations by Iran, the maintenance and toughening of sanctions and a convincing threat of the use of force. They promise further sanctions requiring countries to again reduce their purchases of Iranian petroleum and imposing further prohibitions on strategic sectors of the Iranian economy. Thats a wise move. Congress should be resolute. Unless and until there is an airtight deal, Congress should refuse to lift sanctions and should tighten the conditions under which Obama is permitted to waive sanctions. In refusing to vote for authorization on the use of forceagainst Syria, Irans junior partner, and its use of weapons of mass destruction, lawmakers on the right and left contributed to an impression of unseriousness and, no doubt, emboldened Iran. They have an obligation to reverse that impression and cooperate with Menendez and Graham. The danger is that the Americans will be lured into endless negotiations or, worse, actually sign a deal that gives the mullahs diplomatic cover,enabling Iran to reach its nuclear weapons capability. At that point containment is the only option.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled to talk at the United Nations on Monday; well get our first look at how he will address that challenge. Unlike Obama, he wont endanger the Jewish state by deluding himself and his people into thinking an incomplete or unverifiable agreement resolves the Iranian problem. How he will prevent a nuclear-armed Iran operating in the protective cocoon of Obamas diplomacy is as yet uncertain.